Opponents of a woman’s right to access safe and legal abortion without shame or stigma find themselves in a political climate that is favorable to rolling back and taking away these rights.
Their problem is that, much as the cable news talking heads would have us believe otherwise, this isn’t a partisan or even a controversial issue.
The strong majority of Americans and Floridians — that’s Republicans, Democrats and independents — support the right for women to access abortion care in a supportive and caring environment. The truth is that one in four women in this country will have an abortion in her lifetime.
So, what do opponents of abortion do?
Year after year, they look for ways to chip away at access to reproductive health care — from abortion to sex education to birth control. Often they overreach and the laws they pass to make it harder to access abortion end up getting overturned by the courts.
But too often they do find ways to make it harder for women to access the care they need and they’re at it again this year with not one, not two, but eight bills all designed to make it harder to access a constitutionally protected and widely accepted form of health care — access to abortion.
Curiously, the Ledger’s March 31 editorial on the so-called “abortion data blind spot” only presents the arguments of anti-abortion activists. It also fails to point out that the issue raised in the editorial about data on abortions is actually one small part of a bill moving in the Florida Legislature right now. The bill would require parental consent for abortion (Senate Bill 1774/House Bill 1335). This legislation is being pitched as a way to keep our young people safe, but the truth is it would do just the opposite.
This legislation would require young people to obtain parental consent prior to receiving an abortion. Requiring this burdensome restriction will adversely impact young people who already face obstacles to accessing care.
Of course, parents want to be involved in their young people’s lives, but good family communication can’t be imposed by politicians.
This legislation puts these vulnerable teenagers — those who most need protection — in harm’s way, or forces them to go to court. These teens don’t need a judge, they need a skilled and compassionate health care provider.
It’s hard to understand the reasoning behind the bill’s supporters’ argument that youth are too immature to decide to have an abortion, and yet somehow they are mature enough to be parents, and, once parents, that they are mature enough to make healthcare decisions about themselves and their child.
According to the Guttmacher Institute, 90 percent of 14-year-olds and 74 percent of 15-year-olds surveyed said they involved at least one parent or guardian in their abortion decision. Those young people who didn’t cited that they were worried that they may be thrown out or experience other abuse by their guardian.
As a physician, it comes as no surprise to me that healthcare professionals from the American Medical Association, the Society for Adolescent Medicine, the American Public Health Association, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and other organizations of health professionals oppose mandatory parental involvement in abortion decision making.
The Ledger’s editorial also cites laws recently introduced in Virginia and New York that politicians who oppose access to abortion care have mischaracterized in an attempt to whip up support for further restrictions.
The Virginia bill would repeal medically unnecessary restrictions for women seeking access to safe and legal abortion, including a 24-hour state-mandated delay and requiring women to go to a hospital, which is a costly obstacle that is completely unnecessary. It also removes a requirement that forces pregnant people to get three doctors to sign off on an abortion after 24 weeks. Instead, the bill would allow a patient’s doctor to make the decision with the pregnant person without additional barriers.
In New York, the Reproductive Health Act codified protections for safe, legal abortion into state law. The change takes abortion out of the criminal code and affirms abortion is health care. It also ensures that people who face a risk to their health or learn their pregnancy is no longer viable are still able to access abortion safely and legally after 24 weeks. These are situations where women and doctors need every option possible, not restrictions by politicians who would tie doctors’ hands and shame women.
Whether in New York, Virginia, Florida or anywhere else, politicians inserting themselves in between doctors and patients and making it harder to access abortion or any other form of health care are doing harm.
Dr. Virgil Reid is a practicing obstetrician & gynecologist (OBGYN) in Orlando.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse OpinionOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							News Chief  ~ 300 W. Lime St., Lakeland, FL 33815 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.