Thank you for continuing the conversation about the opioid crisis in our communities and across our country. Over the past few years, progress has been made in this fight through legislation, but not enough. Funding has been directed toward this fight, but not enough.Further progress is required to remove the stigma surrounding this devastating disease – a disease not unlike hypertension, heart disease and diabetes. When left untreated, addiction is progressive and often deadly. Just read the obituaries on any given day to find evidence of its devastating impact on families and our community.Like any other disease, the treatment of addiction is most effective when it is individualized. Medication-Assisted Treatment is an effective tool, but it is not necessarily for everyone and is most effective when used in conjunction with talking therapy and other supports.In this fight, nothing is truer than the adage “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” Incorporating prevention curriculum into our schools from the earliest age right through high school is key to teaching our children important life skills and encouraging an attention shift that will promote self-care and personal wellness. This is increasingly essential as our culture becomes more complex and interpersonal exchanges are more technologically-focused and less interpersonal. Medical schools need to expand their curriculum to include a greater focus on the disease of addiction. In 2017, only 10 percent of our medical schools provided curriculum on addiction as a disease. This, too, speaks to the stigma surrounding the disease of addiction.Prevention and education programs require greater funding. They come at a cost far less than the toll addiction takes on our economy. Investing more dollars upfront in our children’s future through early prevention will result in significant savings long term, not to mention a happier society. According to the National Institute of Health, in 2017 substance abuse exacted more than $740 billion annually in costs related to healthcare, crime and lost work productivity. Economic estimates indicate consequences from drug abuse approach 20 percent of our federal budget.As a culture, addiction to a specific drug is transient. Today it is heroin and opioids, in previous decades it was methamphetamine, Valium and crack cocaine. There will always be a drug to which our culture is drawn. We must change how we address a culture of addiction. Recognizing and accepting addiction as a disease, which brings with it more precise utilization of medication, will improve our approach, as will the expansion of prevention services. Just look at how far we have come in treating cancer, Hepatitis C or HIV/AIDS. There is reason for optimism!Dean Scher is CEO, Catholic Charities of Orange, Sullivan and Ulster. 
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse OpinionOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							recordonline.com  ~ 40 Mulberry St., Middletown, NY 10940 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.