Tracy "T-Rex" Campbell, seen in this undated photo, was arrested in January 2018 for possessing cocaine in his Stapleton home.By Frank Donnelly | fdonnelly@siadvance.com STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. – This “T-Rex” won’t be prowling the streets of Staten Island for a while.Tracy (T-Rex) Campbell, who once supplied the gun used in a fatal shooting, was sentenced Monday to 54 months in prison for possessing illegal drugs last year.Campbell, 29, was busted on Jan. 26, 2018, during a raid of his Gordon Street home in Stapleton, said a criminal complaint.Cops found a large twist of crack cocaine along with scales used for weighing drugs, said the complaint.Afterward, Campbell was indicted on felony and misdemeanor drug-possession charges, along with a misdemeanor count of criminally using drug paraphernalia.Three weeks ago, the defendant pleaded guilty in state Supreme Court, St. George, to a reduced count of attempted third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance to resolve the case.Besides prison time, he was sentenced to 42 months’ post-release supervision.Defense lawyer Mario F. Gallucci said the defendant “takes responsibility” for his actions and asked that Campbell receive substance-abuse treatment while incarcerated.The bearded, bespectacled defendant declined to make a statement to the court.Justice Alexander Jeong told Campbell he needed to decide himself whether to seek treatment in prison and implored the defendant to do so.Assistant District Attorney Jane Grinberg prosecuted the case.Campbell has previously spent time behind bars.In November 2013, he was sentenced to time served after spending 16 months in jail for his role in connection with the fatal shooting of a South Beach man.Prosecutors said Campbell gave a gun to ex-convict Maurice Strother, who later shot and killed Caaff Walker on July 2, 2012. Strother and Walker had fought earlier across from the housing development where the victim lived.The shooting occurred outside 107 Kramer St., a little after 10:30 p.m.Campbell pleaded guilty in state Supreme Court, St. George, to a felony charge of attempted second-degree criminal weapon possession to resolve the charges against him.Prosecutors said then the plea agreement was reached after consulting the victim's family.Meanwhile, Strother, now 35, pleaded guilty to a reduced count of attempted murder in July 2013 and is serving a 15-year sentence.He previously served a sentence of one to three years for a 2007 conviction on attempted criminal sale of a controlled substance in an unrelated case. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2019 SILive.com. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of SILive.com.Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.   Ad Choices  