Police tow John Rudder's 2015 Nissan Altima from the scene in Stapleton hours after he fatally plowed into pedestrian David Bloomer on Tompkins Avenue on June 17, 2018.By Frank Donnelly | fdonnelly@siadvance.com STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. –- David Bloomer’s family will never forget last Father’s Day.Early on the morning of June 17, 2018, Bloomer, 32, the father of a son and daughter and stepfather of two other girls, was fatally mowed down as he crossed a Stapleton street by a felon from Clifton who was speeding and driving while drunk and high.On Monday, an emotional John Rudder, the driver, turned around and faced a group of Bloomer’s relatives and friends who sat in the back of Justice Alexander Jeong’s courtroom to attend Rudder’s sentencing for manslaughter.“I know there’s nothing I can do as of right now, (but) I will say how deeply remorseful I am,” the bearded, bespectacled Rudder said, as several audience members fought back sobs and tears. “I just want to let you guys know I see the errors of my ways.”Rudder, who was sentenced under a plea agreement to five to 10 years in prison, vowed to turn his life around while behind bars.“Everything I do after my return (from prison) will be done in a different light. I will make sure I make up for things that can’t be replaced," the defendant said. “Hopefully, you guys are satisfied with the sentence. Hopefully, you can find some point to find it in your heart to forgive me. I’m very, very remorseful.”Moments earlier, a friend of Bloomer’s family read a statement which contained brief passages from various relatives and friends.“You took my heart, my son, my buddy, my joker,” she said on behalf of the victim’s parents. “If taking my son doesn’t wake you up, I don’t know what will wake you up.”Other kin recalled Bloomer’s kindness and generosity – he’d literally give you the shirt off his back, they said - and wrote of the pain of never seeing him again.“I’m trying to deal with the fact he’s not coming back,” wrote one family member.“Me, as well as my entire family are in so much pain,” a family friend wrote.Still, there was belief that Bloomer’s indomitable spirit would never die.“David will always live,” a friend wrote. “Nobody can stop him from living.”The tragic events unfolded around 4:40 a.m.Police said Rudder was driving a 2015 Nissan Altima northbound, toward St. George, on Tompkins Avenue when the vehicle crossed the double yellow lines and entered the southbound lane.The car plowed into Bloomer, a Stapleton resident, who was crossing Tompkins, police said.The force of the impact propelled the victim into the air and through the windshield of a parked car on Tompkins, said prosecutors. That’s where police found him.Bloomer was pronounced dead on the scene.Prosecutors said Rudder, 26, attempted to drive off, but a patrol car in the area stopped him.A criminal complaint said Rudder’s eyes were watery, his speech was slurred, he appeared lethargic and smelled of alcohol.Rudder told cops he had three drinks before getting behind the wheel, and implored them to "Go, get the man," the complaint said.A Breathalyzer test measured Rudder’s blood alcohol content at .11 percent, said the complaint.The legal threshold to be charged in New York with driving while intoxicated is .08 percent.Prosecutors also said Rudder had cocaine in his system, and cops found cocaine and prescription medicine in the vehicle.The defendant was indicted on charges including second-degree manslaughter, vehicular manslaughter, vehicular assault, leaving an incident scene and driving while intoxicated.He pleaded guilty last month in state Supreme Court, St. George, to second-degree manslaughter.Rudder admitted to recklessly causing Bloomer’s death by speeding in the opposite lane of traffic on Tompkins while intoxicated and while impaired by alcohol and cocaine.Assistant District Attorney Frank Prospero told the court Rudder’s actions were “reckless” and Bloomer’s death was “completely avoidable.”Defense lawyer John M. Murphy III said Rudder was extremely remorseful.“He did not intend the harm he caused,” said Murphy.Jeong, the judge, told Rudder he believed his sorrow was genuine, but he needs to back up his words.Jeong implored the defendant to undergo substance-abuse treatment while incarcerated “and come back a productive member of society.”Ironically, just two days before the crash, Rudder was sentenced to five years’ probation for third-degree burglary in an unrelated case. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2019 SILive.com. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of SILive.com.Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.   Ad Choices  