Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 13, 2019 3:34 PM EDT Filed Under:
Chicago pimp Iceberg Slim was the read deal. And he ultimately regretted exploiting women. ICEBERG SLIM “Tattaglia’s a pimp” — Don Corleone, The GodfatherThe esteemed fictional gangster’s gravelly voice oozed with contempt as he uttered the words. Emphasis on pimp.It wasn’t just disdain for a greasy underworld rival.In Mario Puzo’s 1969 bestseller, the title character considered Tattaglia sub-human.And there’s a very good argument for that world view.A recent bust in Toronto underscores the prevalence of human trafficking and its attendant misery and tears.Toronto Police revealed last week that Simon Ho-On, 23, of Toronto, and Domenic Lees, 24, of Whitby, were arrested and charged with a number of sex trafficking offences.

(left) Domenic Lees, 24, of Whitby, and (right) Simon Ho-On, 23, of Toronto, face an assortment of charges stemming from a human trafficking investigation. (Toronto Police handout)
The pair’s charges stem from allegations that a 22-year-old woman was drugged, beaten and forced at gunpoint to perform sex acts for money.Cops claim one of the accused even tattooed the victim so everyone would know she was his property. However, the accusations have yet to be proven in court.“It’s pretty sad,” Det.-Const. Corrado Rabbito told The Toronto Sun on Tuesday. “These are our daughters. It’s terrifying what could potentially happen. How these men could manipulate this victim, a brilliant university student…and it still happened.”Rabbito said sex is now one of the top three criminal activities. It is not a victimless crime.On Lees’ girlfriend’s Facebook page, she gushes about “her man” and what a wonderful father he is his to their baby girl. I have no way of knowing otherwise.I wonder if he’s ever considered whether — God forbid — his daughter might one day fall prey to the alpha predators lurking on the streets and in bars.Over the years in this business, I’ve found pimps tend to have a twisted philosophy about capitalism, always ready to spout Gordon Gekko-like maxims. And the women in their lives seem to believe they’re supermen.Natasha Robitaille, a small town girl from Orillia, allegedly fell in with a pimp named Sage Finestone — who came from money and connections.

Sage Finestone was convicted in 2017 of human trafficking offences after a girl, 14, was confined to a downtown hotel room and forced into the sex trade. (Toronto Police handout)
Finestone was convicted of human trafficking in 2017 for forcing a 14-year-old girl to have sex with 30 men in five days two years earlier. The adopted grandson of late Liberal senator Sheila Finestone was sentenced to four years in prison.At the time, cops claimed Robitaille lured in underage victims to be pimped out. She may have been in the game herself.Her Facebook page was a great big middle finger to cops. She called Finestone “the bestest” and wrote “my man who keeps me amazing.”She added: “I can’t validate cheap whores who work out of $80 hotel rooms when I’m sitting in my $400 SUITE with my man LAUGHING at all of you.”Until the cops come knocking.Robitaille pleaded guilty to two counts of receiving material benefits from prostitution in 2016 and was later sentenced to eight months imprisonment. She was also put on sex offender registry for life and banned for possessing weapons for 10 years.

Natasha Robitaille, of Orillia, was 18 when she was charged in connection with a human trafficking ring in 2015. (Toronto Police handout)
Sadly, some of our hug-a-thug judiciaries often seem to take a benevolent view of pimps and sex traffickers.It’s as though they see them as Eddie Murphy’s iconic SNL pimp Velvet Jones who told women that in six short weeks he could “train them to be a ho.”Iceberg Slim was the baddest pimp of them all. At the age of 42 and fresh from a prison stint, he decided the streets of Chicago were too violent even for him.In his eponymous memoir, entitled fittingly enough, Pimp, he laid out his philosophy of surviving as a pimp. It was memoir as therapy.But in the end, Slim knew he was a bad man who was forced by horrific personal and economic circumstances to turn to pimping.His book — and others that followed — were bestsellers and an inspiration for a generation of rappers. Slim knew stuff.“Perhaps my remorse for my ghastly life,” he writes in the preface of Pimp, “will diminish to the degree that within this one book I have been allowed to purge myself. Perhaps one day I can win respect as a constructive human being.”Wannabe pimps, take note.

Too many judges seem to think most pimps are like Eddie Murphy’s Velvet Jones. NBC
RUSSIA’S WORST KILLER: 78 VICTIMS AND COUNTINGMikhail Popkov has a seemingly insatiable bloodlust.The 55-year-old Russian was found guilty of 78 murders. He attacked his victims in Siberia with axes, hammers, knives, screwdrivers and spades.Now, detectives believe this monster — a former cop dubbed The Werewolf — may have 30 more victims. Most of the victims were raped during an 18-year reign of terror.

A killer and some his victims. Mikhail Popkov is considered the worst serial killer in Russian history.
His rampage ended in 2010 and he was sentenced to life in prison.But one police source believes cops dropped the ball and missed dozens of other homicides committed by Popkov.“There are 15 to 20 more murders on the Popkov case in Angarsk that have not been investigated,” the source said. “And between five and ten likely murders when, after leaving the police, he worked on the road driving across Russia as a car dealer.”“So totally there is a minimum of 20 new murders and a maximum of 30.”

The serial killer and his daughter. He was reportedly a terrific, devoted father.
Another investigator spoke of his brutality.“He clearly loved killing,” the unidentified detective said. “Some victims had 145, or even 170 knife wounds. “He said that he felt satisfied when he felt their pain as they were stabbed.”MOST WANTEDNAME: Jeyden BarnhillAGE: 24

Have you seen Jeyden Bailey Barnhill? She is considered armed and dangerous. (police handout)
411: Barnhill is considered armed and dangerous. She has brown-hair, blue eyes, is 5-foot-1 and about 125 pounds. Jeyden Bailey Barnhill is wanted for violation of the conditions of her pretrial release in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She had been charged with interference with commerce by threats or violence; conspiracy; aiding and abetting along with other gun-related charges.bhunter@postmedia.comWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN