Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 13, 2019 6:34 PM EDT Filed Under:The Columbus Blue Jackets have a chance to do the unthinkable by sending the No. 1-ranked Tampa Bay Lightning packing from the NHL playoffs in Round 1.But the Jackets, the No. 8 seed, know they haven’t accomplished anything yet.Coming off a 5-1 Friday victory over the Bolts to take a 2-0 lead in their first-round playoff series, the Jackets were flying high as their plane headed to Columbus on Saturday morning, but they’re well aware the Lightning won’t go quietly into the night as the two teams prepare to face off in Game 3 on Sunday at the Nationwide Arena.After falling behind 3-0 in the first period of Game 1 on Wednesday, the Jackets got up off the mat and they’ve taken the play to Tampa in the last two games. The club scored a 4-3 comeback victory over the Bolts in the opener and then didn’t really give Tampa much of a chance in Game 2. That mindset has to continue.While the Lightning may have finished No. 1 overall and won the Presidents’ Trophy with 62 wins during the regular season, the Jackets have served notice to Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper and the players. They’ve got their hands full in this one.If that’s not enough, the Lightning will be without top scorer Nikita Kucherov, who was suspended for one game by the league Saturday for his hit on defenceman Markus Nutivaara late in Game 2.

TAMPA, FL – APRIL 12: Tampa Bay Lightning fans react during the third period against the Columbus Blue Jackets in Game Two of the Eastern Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at Amalie Arena on April 12, 2019 in Tampa, Florida.

Mike Carlson /  

Getty Images
Last year, Columbus pulled out to a 2-0 lead on the Washington Capitals in Round 1, but was eliminated in Game 6. Still, the Jackets know they belong here and want to prove their point.“Playoffs is a new world and we have a pretty good team, too,” Jackets general manager Jarmo Kekalainen told reporters in a conference call Saturday morning before leaving Tampa. “We had 98 points, so we believe in our team, but we know how good the opponent is and we’re taking nothing for granted.“We’re appreciating every little piece of success we can have throughout this series, but I’m not going to get into analyzing where we thought we would be or where we are, we’re just going to concentrate on the next game.”And in this series the next game is huge because the Jackets have an opportunity to push the Bolts to the brink of elimination. It was Kekalainen who decided to keep this team together by not dealing unrestricted free agent winger Artemi Panarin and goaltender Sergei Bobrovsky to get assets at the deadline.pretty, pretty, pretty passing pic.twitter.com/CYA6GedoFWSince Kekalainen wanted to help Columbus make the post-season, he also brought in centre Matt Duchene and winger Ryan Dzingel in separate deals with the Ottawa Senators, giving up a lot of assets in return. The Jackets had to make a late push to make the playoffs, but got there in the final week of the season.The Duchene deal paid dividends when he had a goal and three assists in the Game 2 victory. Kekalainen noted it took a while for the skilled centre to get comfortable. He finished with four goals and 12 points in 23 games.“It’s been great. He’s done the things we expected him to do and it always takes a little bit of time to adjust to a new environment, new city, new team, new teammates and all that stuff,” Kekalainen said. “He’s been playing well lately and it was just nice to see (Friday).“We watched (Duchene) for a long time and we had discussions about him throughout the last couple of years when he was moved from Colorado to Ottawa and then from Ottawa to here. We like the player, we like what he brings to the team and (Friday) was a great example.”

Columbus Blue Jackets Seth Jones, left, celebrates his goal with Matt Duchene during the third period against the Tampa Bay Lightning in Game One of the Eastern Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at Amalie Arena on April 10, 2019 in Tampa, Florida. (Mike Carlson/Getty Images)
Naturally, this will be a huge test for the Lightning, who likely haven’t faced this kind of adversity all season. The club finished with a 62-16-4 record and 128 points. In fact, nobody else was even close. Tampa has no shortage of experience.“We’re not happy with where we are after these games, but it just takes a good, solid effort in Game 3 and hopefully we can get a win to get us right back into this thing,” Bolts defenceman Dan Girardi told reporters in Tampa after the loss Friday.Girardi said the Lightning have to avoid getting frustrated with the Jackets.“They’re well-coached, they’re a smart group over there, they finished checks and got us going after the whistle a bit,” Girardi added. “We were kind of goaded into some things but we’re a very experienced group in here. There’s no panic. We don’t like being down 2-0, but we’ll have nice rest, get on the road and get after it.”

TAMPA, FL – APRIL 12: Riley Nash #20 of the Columbus Blue Jackets celebrates his goal against the Tampa Bay Lightning during the third period in Game Two of the Eastern Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at Amalie Arena on April 12, 2019 in Tampa, Florida.

Mike Carlson /  

Getty Images
The last time the winners of the Presidents’ Trophy were in this kind of trouble was in 2012 when the Los Angeles Kings took a 2-0 lead over the Vancouver Canucks. The Kings went on to win that series 4-1 and went on to win the Stanley Cup that spring.At this point, the Lightning have their work cut out for them to avoid a historic upset.bgarrioch@postmedia.comTwitter: @sungarriochALSO IN THE NEWS:Ottawa Paralympian Stuart McGregor’s long road to the Boston MarathonCondon bursting with confidence following long recovery from hip surgeryGARRIOCH: There’s no shortage of work to do for Senators before training camp in September We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Ottawa Sun