We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.Five years after the kidnapping of 276 girls from Chibok, many schools in northeastern Nigeria are still not safe. Student numbers have dropped and education is still suffering under the threat of Boko Haram. In May 2017, families finally met up with 82 of the Chibok girls who were released after negotiations with Boko HaramOn April 14, 2014, 276 female pupils at the rural boarding school in Chibok were attacked and kidnapped by Boko Haram militants. Some of the girls were as young as 14. The abductions sparked outrage across Nigeria and around the world as campaigners demanded that officials do more to find and free the girls. Out of the 276 girls, the fate of 112 girls still remains uncertain. Many are still in captivity, but it is believed that not all of the girls survived the harsh conditions of life under Boko Haram. The Islamist militant group Boko Haram (usually translated as "western education is forbidden") has repeatedly targeted schools in northern Nigeria and neighboring countries. In February 2018, militants of the group attacked another school in Dapchi, kidnapping 110 girls. Five died in the aftermath. The rest of the girls, including a Christian girl who refused to convert to Islam, were released a month later.According to UNICEF, Boko Haram has kidnapped over 1,000 minors and killed over 2,000 teachers. The UN organization says that only 53 percent of children of school age in northern Nigeria are currently attending classes.Read more: Boko Haram militants kill 23 soldiers in Chad Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine  Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Gg3sGirls bear the toughest burdenAlhajy Bashir Muhammad is a father of nine. In response to the attacks, he has stopped sending his children to school. "Frankly speaking, we can't take our children back to public school because there is no adequate security," he says. "No measures are taken by the government to protect them."The constant threat of an attack has had a drastic effect on young people's education across northern Nigeria. In the long run, the massive gaps in formal education threaten to significantly stunt development and increase poverty in the region.Women's rights activist A'isha Alh Kabu says that girls are disproportionately affected by this situation. Many educational activities for girls have stopped entirely and many secondary schools for girls have closed. "In places like Damboa, Baga and Mafa, schools do not exist," she says. "Most of the girls are not going to school."Read more: Chibok girls: parents split over rehabilitationThe #BringBackOurGirls campaign, calling for more efforts to find the abducted Chibok girls made its way around the globe; education advocate Malala Yousafzai, who survived an extremist attack on her way to school in Pakistan, showed her supportAbducted to join the militantsThe extremist threat not only affects northern Nigeria, but also the border regions of Cameroon and Niger. School buildings have been set on fire and schoolchildren have been kidnapped and recruited as suicide bombers or child soldiers.Abdouraman Bello is 17 years old. Last year, Boko Haram fighters kidnapped him from his school in Fotokol near Cameroon's border to Nigeria. He was taken to Sambisa Forest in Nigeria, where Boko Haram are known to have their main hideout. He was forced to run errands and spy for the group's members. At one point the militants asked him what he would tell people if they let him go back home. "I said I would only inform them that I have been freed," says Bello. "They told me I was lying and that I should have instead opted to remain with them. They said if they allow me to return, I will tell the military where they are and they will be killed so they will not let me go."After he was eventually freed by the Cameroonian military, Bello he swore to himself out of fear that he would never to go back to school. In the meantime, however, he has returned to his old school in Fotokol.Read more: No return to normal life for freed girls of DapchiThe school in Dapchi from which over 100 girls were abducted Teaching under the extremist threatIt is not just students who stay at home: Teachers also fear for their lives. According to Cameroon's government, around 600 teachers are refusing to go to work.Teacher Patricia Ngum was supposed to be posted to Bello's school in Fotokol. She decided against the transfer and remained in Maroua, where it is safer. "Do you expect me to go to a place where I can be killed? There are burnings of schools, there are hostages, there are suicide bombings where somebody decides to kill himself in order to kill a number of people. So when you are posted to this area to work, you are not sure of what will happen to you."Her colleague, Mainimo Etienne, however, is urging the government to rebuild the schools that were destroyed. "If we don't do anything, the future of these children, the makers of tomorrow, is in great danger. So many of them do not go to school."Violence in NigerWith its long border with northern Nigeria, neighboring Niger has also seen a spike in violence. In March alone, 88 civilians were killed by the terrorist group. More than 18,000 people had to flee their homes, according the UN.Observers suspect that this has also had an impact on school attendance, but Lalaina Fatara Andriamasinoro of UNICEF Niger says there are still no figures on the actual effect. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine  Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2zvNgDouble threat in CameroonSanda Zoua, a regional education officer in northern Cameroon, admits that the drop in school attendance is alarming. At the end of 2018, 124 schools were closed. "The last suicide bombings have restricted schools from functioning normally," he says. "In January this year, we were forced to close three schools in Waza region."In Cameroon, education is not only under threat from Boko Haram. For the last few years, the country has been experiencing significant political upheaval in its anglophone-majority regions, the southwest and northwest, where separatists are demanding independence. English speakers make up about 20 percent of the country. The separatists, who are calling for a free state of "Ambazonia," have said that children in their regions should no longer go to mainstream Cameroonian schools. In mid-February, 2019, separatists abducted 170 students at a Catholic school in Kumbo. The students were released a day later, but the fear of sending the children to school remains.Moki Kindzeka and Muhammad Al-Amin contributed to this article.  The Boko Haram attack was the deadliest on Chadian forces to date. Security sources believed that the raid was a bid to steal military equipment. (22.03.2019)
  Parents of the freed Chibok girls are divided on how best to reintegrate their daughters back into the society. Nigeria's government says it has the consent from the parents but some are unhappy with the limited access. (09.06.2017)
  Five months ago, Boko Haram kidnapped more than 100 schoolgirls. Four weeks later, the terrorists let the girls go. But for many of them, a self-determined and normal life seems out of reach. A report by Adrian Kriesch. (17.07.2018)
  In Nigeria, terror group Boko Haram took young girls away from their families and raped them — for years they were forced to live under their oppressive rule. Some of the lucky ones were able to escape. Udo Schmidt traveled to a remote village in northeastern Nigeria to learn more about how the young women are rebuilding their lives after Boko Haram. 
South Africa has been hailed as the most liberal African country when it comes to gay rights, but there's a dark side to it as discrimination is still rife in the country. There's also a dark side to the South Korean phenomenon of K-pop: As more and more K-pop groups take center stage, so do reports of abuse. 
Nigeria's military has said it rescued scores of girls who went missing after a militant attack on a school earlier this week. Their abduction was similar to the case of the 276 Chibok girls, who were taken in 2014. Got an opinion about the stories making headlines? Send us a text at +49-160-9575 9510. International SMS charges apply. Please make sure to include your name and your country. We will sample your texts in our show.
  
© 2019 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
