SettingsCancelSetHave an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutA Phoenix mother says her black son was forced to walk through his class at BASIS Central Phoenix as his teacher and fellow students berated him.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        A Phoenix mother says her 9-year-old son was forced to walk through his class as his teacher and fellow students yelled at, humiliated and berated him as part of a lesson on racial segregation at BASIS Phoenix Central. (Photo: Lorraine Longhi/The Republic)A Phoenix mother says her 9-year-old son was forced to walk through his class as his teacher and fellow students yelled at, humiliated and berated him during a lesson on school segregation. Claudia Rodriguez posted on Facebook that a third-grade teacher at BASIS Phoenix Central singled out her son, who is black, as the class was learning about the civil-rights movement.  "The Head of School had the nerve to tell me that there was some educational value in this incident because it started conversations in the homes of the other kids," Rodriguez wrote. "I felt the need to speak up so that no other child ever has to feel what my son felt."But another mom says Rodriguez's account doesn't match up to what her daughter experienced.Vinita Bhatnagar said her daughter, who is Indian and in the same class as Rodriguez's son, said the lesson was a positive learning experience."She came home and told me how important it is to treat other people with kindness and not to discriminate," Bhatnagar told The Arizona Republic. "She had absolutely nothing negative to say about it. I do not believe that it was out of line in any way."A spokesman for BASIS said the exercise Thursday was a reenactment of the Little Rock Nine, a group of African-American students who faced verbal and physical abuse after enrolling in Little Rock Central High School in 1957.Rodriguez's son volunteered to represent the Little Rock Nine in the exercise, spokesman Phil Handler said."The characterization that I’ve heard is that the boy was fine, he was not upset and the whole class thought it was a pretty good lesson," Handler said.The teacher told students not to use racist or derogatory remarks during the lesson, Handler said. Students of other races volunteered in other class periods for the exercise.Rosalind Thompson, the head of BASIS Phoenix Central, told The Republic that she personally meets with students to discuss her own experiences as a black woman who lived through segregation. Thompson also said as a black woman she would not discriminate against her own black students."I am sorry that ... (the) lesson was offensive to some of you — we won't repeat it," Thompson wrote in her letter to parents. "But in today's environment, I think it helped the children to 'live' that history for a brief moment and hopefully assure that they never have to live it in real life as I did."Rodriguez told The Republic that she met with community leaders on Sunday to discuss the situation. Thompson said she plans to sit down with Rodriguez and representatives from the NAACP on Tuesday.Rodriguez declined a request for comment on Monday.Rodriguez said in comments posted to Facebook that she had filed a complaint with the Arizona State Board for Charter Schools.A spokesman for the board said he had not seen a complaint formally submitted but that he could not yet account for any complaints that could have been emailed to the board.The regulatory board is one of the only mechanisms for oversight of charter schools, which are publicly funded but privately owned and not regulated by Arizona's certification standards.For more stories that matter, subscribe to azcentral.com. The teacher in question does not appear to have any certification records on file with the Arizona Department of Education. But teachers at charter schools are not required to have teaching certificates."This woman should not be teaching kids, she has no business in a classroom if she thinks it's OK to do this to a child," Rodriguez wrote in her Facebook post.Handler said that the teacher always presents a lesson on the Little Rock Nine and that parents are not typically notified beforehand."I’ve never heard of anybody complaining about learning about the civil-rights movement," Handler said. "From time to time parents get upset, and we’re sorry it happened."Neal Lester, director of Project Humanities at Arizona State University, said school curriculums lack cultural competency and empathy. "It’s exhausting that this keeps happening over and over again," Lester said. "It's beside the point whether the student volunteered or not. It shouldn’t have been a lesson plan that needed to be demonstrated in the way it was."Neal Lester (Photo: Courtesy Neal Lester)Lester says a lack of sensitivity when it comes to teaching about slavery and the civil-rights movement is nothing new.In 2017, a Chandler mom criticized her school's decision to show a movie about slavery and the Underground Railroad that uses an iteration of the N-word to junior high students.At the time, a district spokesman said the film had been shown in the district for years."People are always surprised," Lester said. "But who’s making the decisions and how culturally competent are the people making these lesson plans?Rodriguez said that the lesson came at the expense of her son's emotional well-being."What has been done to my child cannot be undone, but maybe we can prevent it from happening to someone else," Rodriguez wrote.Bhatnagar said that the diversity of BASIS's campus means this lesson might be the first time that immigrant families would be taught the history of American segregation."This might be their first exposure to it," she said. "It will be a lesson that will not be forgotten."BASIS Phoenix Central, 201 E. Indianola Ave., enrolls approximately 895 students, according to its website.According to data from the Arizona Department of Education, the ethnic breakdown of BASIS Central Phoenix is:Despite the pushback from some parents over the racial segregation lesson, Bhatnagar maintains that BASIS is a diverse campus where each child is uplifted and embraced."These children are not treated as 'other' or different at this school," she said. "It is a mini-United Nations with over 20 different countries represented. A whole rainbow of colors, religions, nationalities. All celebrated. Uplifted. Embraced."Do you know what happened at BASIS Phoenix Central last week? Reach the reporter Lorraine Longhi at llonghi@gannett.com or 480-243-4086. Follow her on Twitter @lolonghi.Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.