APKate McClure appears in court Monday, April 15, 2019 at Burlington County Superior Court. McClure pleaded guilty to a state charge in a 'good Samaritan' scam of GoFundMe donors and faces a potential four-year prison term. (Joe Lamberti | Camden Courier-Post via AP)By Amanda Hoover | NJ Advance Media For NJ.com Kate McClure, the New Jersey woman who spun a tale of a homeless veteran who had helped her, but later admitted the story behind her fundraising was a sham, pleaded guilty Monday for a second time to lying in the scheme that raised $400,000.McClure, dressed in black, appeared in Burlington County Superior Court before Judge Christopher Garrenger with her parents and pleaded guilty to a second-degree charge of theft by deception. The state has recommended she serve four years in prison for the offense.The 29-year-old had already admitted to lying when creating the fundraiser. In March, she entered a guilty plea to a charge of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and is facing 27 to 33 months in federal prison.Her attorney, James Gerrow, told reporters gathered outside the courthouse he hopes the judges will keep his client out of jail, and that they will have compassion for her, as there is “a lot more at play” involving her relationship with her ex-boyfriend and co-defendant, Mark D’Amico, which was allegedly marked by domestic violence.“Her hope is that in the end, the judges are satisfied with her explanation,” he said. “All of this was done at the direction of D’Amico.”Any imposed state sentence will run concurrent with the federal sentence, and the additional state charge of conspiracy will be dropped, Assistant Prosecutor Andrew McDonnell said.One of her co-defendants, Johnny Bobbitt, has pleaded guilty to his role in both federal and state court, as well. The two have agreed to pay restitution to GoFundMe in terms that will be finalized at a later date.D’Amico, faces a charges of theft by deception over $75,000 and conspiracy, and has not been charged in federal court.All three rode a wave of brief, glowing international fame in late 2017 when their GoFundMe campaign went viral. They told the heart-warming but since-debunked story of how McClure had run out of gas while driving into Philadelphia on I-95, and Bobbitt had come to her rescue, walking to a nearby gas station and using his last $20 to fill up her tank while she waited in her car, safe.McClure and D’Amico said they had started the fundraiser to “pay it forward,” hoping to raise $10,000 to get their new friend off the street. But the story tugged on donors’ heart strings as it went viral, leading more than 14,000 donors to open up their wallets and shell out some $400,000 to the veteran’s cause.Bobbitt would get his own house and a dream truck, the trio said, as they appeared on national news. But by mid-2018, the relationship had soured. He accused the couple of withholding hundreds of thousands of dollars, while McClure and D’Amico said they had no choice, worrying he would burn it on drugs.Bobbitt sued, and it soon became clear that all the money was gone, spent in mere months by the trio. In November, the story saw another twist: investigators had determined that the whole story had been a fake, and Bobbitt had never stopped to help McClure. Instead, the couple met him while he panhandled near a Philadelphia casino they frequented.McClure has since broken up with D’Amico. During her plea in federal court, Gerrow named D’Amico as the mastermind of the scam, saying his client had made up the story, yes, but had done so with intention of helping a homeless veteran, whom she did not at first know had a history of substance abuse.That narrative re-emerged Monday afternoon. McClure said she had not participated freely in the national news interviews, but did so because D’Amico told her it would help Bobbitt.“He didn’t pull me there,” she said of D’Amico.Gerrow also told reporters after the hearing that D’Amico had physically attacked McClure, and that it was caught on an audio tape.The media appearances continued later in 2018, after Bobbitt accused the couple of withholding the money. They appeared on Megyn Kelly Today to deny his accusations, maintaining that the accounts still had more than $150,000.“I didn’t want to do that," she said of the interview. “I just want to make that 100 percent clear.”Gerrow said McClure is concerned that her actions will adversely impact donors for other campaigns in need.Bobbitt received a special five-year sentence in Drug Court Friday. He must abide by the program’s conditions, which include inpatient treatment and eventually securing employment, or could face up to five years in prison.McClure is scheduled to be sentenced in Burlington County June 3 and federal court June 19, while Bobbitt has a status conference there June 18, but no sentencing date, a spokesperson for the U.S. Attorney’s Office said.Editor’s Note: A previous version of this story said McClure was 28. It has been corrected to show she is 29. Amanda Hoover can be reached at ahoover@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandahoovernj. Find NJ.com on Facebook.Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2019 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.   Ad Choices  