Everyone will agree that being a champion for mistreated children is one of the most altruistic things a person could do in our world. Children, who have no voice on election day and usually are unable to clearly vocalize their victimization, are at the mercy of the adults in their lives. If they cannot depend on their caregivers for security, then they are left with the safeguards established in our society to bridge the gap for their safety and a stable future.Some of the entities working to keep children safe include Department of Child and Family Services, the court system and private social welfare agencies. Having worked from each of these perspectives, my experience has shown that systems can be challenging as a normal course of practice. Not because good intentions are lacking but rather, policy, rules and laws need to be set in place as a necessity; however, each child and his or her family are not cookie cutter situations. The multiplicity of situations and the need for law and order create a challenge to the responsible personnel to work together to bring solutions to hurting children.Many assume DCFS can remove children from their parents, and it is true DCFS can make a temporary decision to put a child in foster care, but for that choice to be legal the states attorney’s office is required to hold a hearing within 48 hours of taking custody. The parents, along with the child, are assigned a lawyer throughout the case. Once the case is proved up, the return of the child to the home is the priority. This is not a quick process mostly because improving the home environment takes time. Parents usually do not understand the enormity of why their children are removed and thus, adjusting lifestyles with counseling and services occurs over a period of time.As well, juvenile abuse court, which is a civil matter because consequences do not include incarceration, frequently involves tangent legal issues. There are times when an offending parent is also charged in criminal court which can result in jail time. This is an entirely separate case and may be handled by different defense attorneys and prosecutors. Events in one case can adversely impact the outcome of the other case. Abuse cases can also be complicated by family court matters. A child cannot be returned home to a non-custodial parent even if they are the more stable option.These legal factors make child abuse cases complicated. But add to this, navigating through lengthy reports over the average case duration of one to three years along with the annual state budget process, which can and does fluctuate in support of restorative family resources, makes working in the juvenile courtroom a challenge for even an experienced attorney.None of this occurs without cost either. Fixing problems requires financial resources whether it’s road repairs or broken families. Infrastructure repairs, if they are not done are very evident and will compound over time if they are not addressed. Victimized children are no different and are vastly more important than roads. Citizens would revolt if roads repairs were approached with the same lassitude as mistreated children. Early intervention is the least expensive response, yet trauma issues easily escalate without viable intervention and as does the cost to society.A research article on the long-term impact of child maltreatment by Dr. David Zielinski, states that one in 7 adults between the ages of 18 and 54 reports either sexual, physical or severe neglect as a child. This study, along with many others have demonstrated child victims of abuse and neglect are much more probable as adults to be unemployed, experience poverty and have higher government program participation. These outcomes are likely the result of less years of education, repeat victimization as an adult and having physical or mental health issues hindering job productivity. It is easy to comprehend that investing in child victims early on can save society much in the long-term and well as increase the quality of life of those affected.Locally, the situation of the juvenile court prosecutor is itself a matter of a court proceeding. The need for a viable prosecutor is valid. Across many counties, the role of a juvenile prosecutor is often viewed as an entry level responsibility. Any licensed attorney, even one without experience, can fill the role of a juvenile prosecutor so it seems. Yet, to provide adequate justice for the children who are mistreated, an experienced practitioner is a must.We quickly understand poor roads damage vehicles and inhibit commerce, but not making a priority of child victims eats away at the integrity of a community presently as well as in the future. Every county reaps the benefits of investing in children, but it also bears the consequences of neglecting the same. Judy Johnson Guenseth is a longtime resident of Galesburg, where she works in the public sector. 
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse OpinionOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							Daily Review Atlas  ~ 400 South Main Street, Monmouth, IL 61462 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.