By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com  Published: 15:56 EDT, 15 April 2019  |  Updated: 16:42 EDT, 15 April 2019   31View  commentsHe's remained in the public eye since first appearing on a MTV reality show in 2009.And Ryan Edwards was released from prison on Monday morning after spending three months in the Hamilton County Jail in Tennessee, according to US Weekly. The 31-year-old Teen Mom star was arrested in January for 'theft of services under $1,000' when he walked out on a $36 bar tab, and was also booked for a heroin possession charge stemming from an outstanding warrant.Free: Ryan Edwards was released from prison on Monday morning after spending three months in the Hamilton County Jail in Tennessee, according to US Weekly; seen in his January mug shotHis family is likely excited to see him on the other side of the law as his father, Larry Edwards, told RadarOnline that prison is 'not like on TV' and far more somber.'You go into a room. It’s a video. He sits in one room and the family is in another,' he said. 'Ryan is excited to come home and be with all of us. He said he’s missed us and he loves us. I’m excited. It's been a long time.' Police took the star to the Hamilton County Jail in Chattanooga in January for 'theft of services under $1,000' from a December incident, according to TMZ.  Edwards was taken into custody for a heroin possession charge which came from an outstanding warrant in Red Bank, Tennessee, it was alleged. The warrant for that charge was likely already out at the time of the theft arrest. The 31-year-old Teen Mom star was arrested in January for 'theft of services under $1,000' when he walked out on a $36 bar tab, and was also booked for a heroin possession charge stemming from an outstanding warrant; seen with wife MackenzieHis family: He has a 10-year-old son Bentley with ex Maci Bookout. Pictured here is Ryan with his wife Mackenzie Standifer, their newborn Jagger and her son Hudson, aged four, from a previous relationshipRyan reportedly asked for six Jack Daniel’s whiskeys while at Bud’s Sports Bar in Tennessee, but left the restaurant without paying his tab.  The site also noted that the bartender called the police and then recognized him from previous mug shots available on the police portal as Edwards has been arrested several times in the past.  Edwards has struggled with addiction and drug dependency for years and was arrested for driving under the influence while on his way to his wedding to Mackenzie Standifer, 22, in May 2017.He has tried: He was in rehab when Jagger was born and got out in NovemberThe couple still proceeded with their wedding and most recently welcomed son Jagger into the world in October. He checked into rehab in June and then in November he married his wife for the second time. He was arrested in March 2018 for violating the terms of his probation stemming from a previous heroin possession charge.    Done: The star and his wife quit the popular show Teen Mom OG in JulyHe was taken into police custody again in July 2018 for two counts of simple possession of heroin, and Edwards spent one week in jail.He was then told to complete six months of probation and random drug testing, according to RadarOnline, and soon after, he and his wife quit Teen Mom OG. In November, he finished his second rehab stint, this time spending 90 days in treatment and missing the birth of his son Jagger.His substance abuse problems were a storyline on Teen Mom OG with ex-fiancee Maci often worrying about their son being in Ryan's care.TMZ has claimed that at one point the star had a '$10k-a-week heroin addiction.' His ex: He shares 10-year-old son Bentley with ex Maci Bookout; seen on the MTV show   Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group