The troubles at Newburgh Free Academy got more troubling this week. The details are discouraging and familiar, following a pattern established over several years and leading to the inevitable conclusion that there will be no solution, no correction, until some authority independent of the school steps in.After studying the lengthy and detailed report by a grand jury, a litany of neglect and abuse that for more than a decade has allowed students to cut classes seemingly at will and still maintain eligibility to compete in sports and to graduate, the best that the school board could do was whine that no administrators were called to testify.Had any board members or their lawyers bothered to ask they would have learned that two administrators were contacted to provide information to the grand jury, an assistant principal and a principal. But they would not talk unless they first received immunity.Immunity.For talking about doing their job.Apparently the board did not know that.And the board did not know, and apparently still does not know, that the problems it likes to pretend were solved long ago or have been solved recently — you can find evidence of both beliefs in board remarks — are still going on.Christopher Eachus, a former Orange County legislator and retired NFA teacher, opened the regular board meeting with the news that “ … these acts of misconduct are not going on in the past; they’re not happening from past years. They’re currently happening.”The longer this goes on, the more the board harms the institution it is supposed to serve in two ways.The first is the obvious one, the notion that NFA is allowing unqualified athletes to compete, unqualified students to graduate, sending young people into the world without the education that the school is duty bound to provide.The second is more troubling. As the grand jury report makes clear, while the class cutting and coverups are extensive, they still include only a small percentage of students in the school. The majority of NFA’s athletes, the majority of its graduates, are going to class, taking tests, meeting all of the requirements that they should. The majority of teachers and staff are following the rules, making sure that there are no short cuts to the playing fields or graduation ceremony.Yet by ignoring the problem for decades despite several warnings, the school board has now allowed the wrongful actions of a few to stain all others.There is one hint of a solution and it comes from the superintendent, Roberto Padilla. He alone atop the school hierarchy is saying what everybody else in the city is saying and thinking:“I’m angry, I’m upset and I’m disappointed. We have, and continue, to work tremendously hard. ... Clearly, more work is needed.”Will the board let him do that work? Judging by board comments recently and over time, that is not likely.Padilla needs to report to the community and be honest about what he has done and what he has not allowed to be done. But if he cannot or will not take on that independent responsibility, then the state needs to step in.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse OpinionOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							recordonline.com  ~ 40 Mulberry St., Middletown, NY 10940 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.