 Dear reader, please upgrade to the latest version of IE to have a better reading experienceIndia's election commission on Monday banned a Hindu state chief minister from campaigning for three days after anti-Muslim comments in an election that will end next month. The saffron-clad Yogi Adityanath, a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ruling party, had been warned this month about his campaign speeches, the election commission said. The commission said Adityanath, chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, had spoken about a “green virus” in a speech last week in reference to Muslim voters who he said were being wooed by opposition parties. Read: India's top court questions election commission on action against perpetrators of hate speechModi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been playing to its nationalist base and painting its rivals as soft on terrorism and eager to appease Muslims, who make up about 14 percent of India's 1.3 billion population. A BJP spokesman said the party was inclusive towards all communities. “The party believes in all-together development for all, and we don't believe in any polarization,” spokesman Harish Srivastava said. The election commission also imposed a ban on the leader of the Dalits, people at the bottom of the Hindu caste structure, saying she had violated a code of conduct by asking Muslims to vote en bloc for opposition candidates. The ban on Dalit leader Mayawati would run for two days, it said. A spokesman for Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which is in an alliance with another regional party in Uttar Pradesh, could not be reached for comment. The commission on Monday also banned Azam Khan, a leader from the Samajwadi Party (SP), an ally of the BSP, and minister Maneka Gandhi from campaigning for violating the code of conduct. Khan was banned for three days, while Gandhi was banned for two days. Staggered voting in the general election began last Thursday and will end on May 19. Although jobs, nationalism and conditions for farmers are the main issues, religion is an important and sensitive topic. The BJP repeated in its manifesto a commitment to build a Hindu temple in the northern town of Ayodhya at a site disputed by Muslims, seeking to gain the support of majority Hindus. Last week, BJP president Amit Shah referred to illegal Muslim immigrants as termites and vowed to throw them into the sea. Surveys suggest Modi's ruling alliance looks set to win a majority smaller than in the last election in 2014, when it secured a commanding win on a promise to turn India into an economic and military power. Hard liner have got no space in this world.Good move powerful Indian Electioncommission .This is the power of Election Commission in India. Next in line to be banned, is Azam Khan and Menaka Gandhi.Too little, too late. In fact, irreparable and irretrievable damages to the life, properties, integrity, self-respect and dignity of the hapless and helpless Muslim minority of the biggest sham, false, fake, fraud and shame democracy in the world has already been effected and inflicted under the watch of the racist, bigot, biased, prejudiced and liar BJC government as well as its cunning, crooked, cruel and criminal "movers and shakers" in New and Old Delhi.@Umesh,   that's doneBJP doing the utmost to divide the country on ethnic and religious grounds.Best moveTrue face gets exposed again and again.This man is a solid proof against India's claim of being a secular state.@Sheraz, but, Trump is the topmost hardliner?@Umesh,
Looks like "the power of" ethnic and religious divisions have firmly taken hold.Banned For 3 days? What a joke. One of our minister gave remarks about Hindus and he had To lose his ministry.That’s BJP’s mentality!!! They have planted the seeds of hate and discrimination. Short term loss is their long term benefit.Indian democracy is not perfect. As a Muslim I say that religion, caste and all sorts of differences are highlighted  before elections. After elections everybody (almost) forgets themShameful real face of Rss terrorist. Imagine a CM of largest populated province of Punjab saying that he would be fired fast in Pakistan. That is the real change! He can still run for election now that is pathetic!Well done, there is no place for such divisive politics in India. Indias strength and beauty is secularism and the majority support it but are often silent, so get hijacked by the loud minority. Its time the majority spoke up against this kind of hate, people of all faith have made India. We dont have to look far to see what extreme views can do to a country!Why news aboutxMayawati vanished?@Umesh,  Azam Khan and Menka Gandhi are already banned.Wrong info on the reason for the ban. The ban was for saying "If the Congress, the SP and the BSP have faith in Ali, then we too have faith in Bajrang Bali" in response to BSP leader who was also banned.Only banned for 3 days! What difference would that make?@Umesh,  power of election commission in India??? Are you pointing finger at pakistan. Let me tell you, No politicians in Pakistan every give hate speech against minorities to gain votes that’s the power and intelligence of Pakistani politicians.Banned for 2 or 3 days ? Laughable. Should have been years not days.A good decision by the EC to ban people who are not in sinc with law of the country.
Democracy means respect for one and all.People are not mobs,who can be swayed
by sectarian rhetoric,India will maintain its humanitarian character.@Umesh,  should have banned for this election.. shows how they exploitTry and learn something!Can’t see the usual flood of Indian comments condemning this man, silence speaks volume.@Abbas shah,
3 days of ban on campaigning? Yea, right@Umesh,
Yea. They should be banned from contesting..and what we see in pakistan?It is all big BJP drama.. Adityanath said what the majority Hindu extremists want to hear.. and he has full backing of Modi!!Amazing. One of the most powerful and influential politicians in Hindustan comes up with this kind of vile racism, and instead of showing even the slightest remorse for it, Hindustanis here are celebrating the court's decision to ban him for a paltry three days. In Pakistan, not even the most religious mainstream parties would ever dare to make comments like this about minorities, bit across the border they are tossed around by the ruling party itself. That is the difference between the two cultures, for all to see. Thank you Quaid-e-Azam.TestDemocracy at work and no one should be spared if they break the rules. Thank you Thiru Modiji for not even sparing BJP Chief ministeronly ban for 2 or 3 days?? why not the whole election?they will make more comments and get banned for 2 more days but their job of spreading hatred will be done !and why  ban someone who asks voters to vote for them in large numbers?? !!The so-called shining and moderate India!!@Abbas shah,  too slow, too late to respond. Shameful.@Umesh,  banning for just 3 days?  wow, like that's going to make a big difference!India's election commission appears to be non-partisan and seem to apply the law equally to ALL parties.Indian politics is maligned right from the beginning (i.e., from 1934 elections). The parties always created riots among different religious groups. Congress was created by the British themselves and Muslim league was propped up too by them. Congress under different modified names is still carrying out similar politics but towing British line. Same has been true with Pakistani politics. BJP is another party bowing to the same outside forces with a brutal force on its own citizens. Whoever speaks against their agenda is labeled a traitor. Till religions are being used as a tool for politics, nothing is going to improve in India and Pakistan.Power of independent, strong and honest election commission.  Ditto with the supreme courts that cannot be bought or blackmailed by the moneyed and powerful.  There are some lessons that we can learn from this.No comments on how minorities are oppressed in Hindu India?3 day ban feom capaigning.....laughableSecular IndiaApplicable for 72 hrs only..Goes to show that extremists can be found in any religionFunny how you characterize Mayavati to be at the bottom and yet she is one of the top politicians.@Umesh,  Already banned, please read article :-)At the end of the day, these politicians know they will get into trouble yet are willing to make the statement to gain publicity and votes. It is a pure calculation, no emotion here.Provide full information . Yogi AdityaNath banner for 72 hours and the opposition party SP-BSP leader Mayawati also banned for 48 hours . SP leader Azam Khan also booker for giving statements against Hindus and insulting womenSee the power of impartial election commission of India. Salute to these people who silently do their job with honesty and dedication. I love my IndiaHopefully pakistan will also give such power yo their election commission so that voters cannot be mislead by religious comment and any such nuisance, not only yogi adityanath , former up chief and bahujan samajwadi party chief mayawati has been banned for 48 hours and net going to be on menka gandhi and aazam khan ... This kind of election is called fair and true election , I have never heard such kind of election in any country including pakistan china ukThank you Jinnah for giving us Pakistan! Thank You Thank You!@Umesh,  read entire news .Azam Khan and Mayawati along with Maneka Gandhi are also banned for 72 hours and 48 hours like Adityanath. I love the Election commission of India and it is only these institutions like Election Commission of India and Judiciary that has given Indian democracy the respect from the world. I do not care who wins whether it is Modi or Rajiv Gandhi so long as the democratic & secular values are upheld because it is precisely these type of impartial actions that has made an Indian proud of its democracy, irrespective of what religion they belong to. It would not be out of context here to mention that there are representatives of so many countries who are in India watching how the Election commission is conducting these impartial elections including the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) as these reps have come to study how the world's largest democracy elects its law makers.. This is one of the reasons how India will gain the respect of the world order to become a super power of future.Modi needs Muslim voters.Perfect decision. Next time he does it, ban him for ever.Yogi,  Maya,  Azam,  Maneka,  Sakshi Maharaj,  Giriraj and Mufti shoould be banned for entire election period.Religious fanatics in India and indeed in all countries - are all dangerous.
Read Australian Judge's comments in Sydney Morning Herald in article by Angus Thompson and Margaret Scheikowski - January 31 2019.Ok for 3 days then back into action. Yogi is a dynamic firebrand leader of masses.Not surprising if NaMo Rahul and Amit Shah face the same  musicBanned for 2 and 3 days? What an eyewash! This guy is a known minority hater with a long list of 'achievements'.Voting along caste and religious lines is stupid.CM of UP a Hindutva zealot is full of venom against Muslims, prejudice increasing exponentially encouraged by likes of Modi.This is an example of how democracy is thriving in India. We are role model for rest of the world on what people power means. No partiality, favorism all are equal in good and bad.It is time to stop communal politics, we have to grow out of uncivilized way of electioneering.Someone said here yesterday Indian EC is toothless. None in India can to challenge this decree. Not even the court can override this order. This is why this nation is proud as the largest democracy on earth.Indian election comission is also a joke.2 or 3 days ban is adding insult to muslims@umesh ban is for 3 days.its a joke.adityanath will complete his sleep in 3 days and come out to abuse people practically more.you are encourging him by the way by imposing this harmless banDiffrence between India and Pakistan@Dr. Salaria, Aamir Ahmad,  sorry no one agree with you, so much writing not even one agreed?These politicians are playing with the sentiments and are getting votes. Their politics is based on hate against Pakistan and muslims, even millions workers are working in other countries and never see any hating behaviour from them. The educated people in India and overseas countries are just normal and having best relations with all people. In US, Canada, UK, All educated people having friendship with all communities and enjoying mutual respects with each other as I myself experienced.@Jaswinder Sandhu,  wrong again not against  BJP government against county. where you born , fed,educate talk against the country is traitor. please do not fabricate the truth.saying she had violated a code of conduct by asking Muslims to vote en bloc for opposition candidates.""
Yogi comments came after Mayawati speech .
She should have got 72 hours blackout .Election commission of India has also banned Azam Khan for his comments against Jaya Prada. Also banned Mayawati to seek votes of Muslims to her gathbandhan.  All politics for election and nothing will be there after election.@M. Saeed ,  And so are Election commission of India and other constitutional bodies that are proof of secularism.  The constitution can be amended but it is the choice of majority that makes India secular. There are issues and incidents no denying in that.@Uday Kulkarni,  "It would not be out of context here to mention that there are representatives of so many countries who are in India watching how the Election commission is conducting these impartial elections including the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) as these reps have come to study how the world's largest democracy elects its law makers."When observers come to a country during elections, it's not a sign of admiration, it's a sign that you can't be trusted. Pakistan has observers during elections as well, but at least we're not deluded by the belief that they're there to learn from us. The fact that you think this way is actually quite comical, especially since there have already been a number of election-related deaths in Hindustan.@bhaRAT©,  And what about Azam khan and Mayawati? Comments AzamKhan has spoken are so vulgar can not be reproduced here.@Sabir, Punjab Pakistan ,  there is no minority left in pakistan... so why would it be talked about@Dr. Salaria, Aamir Ahmad,  WOW Mr Ahmad, your command of the English Language boggles the mind. Your vocabulary is indeed limitless and would and should impress the whole of the English speaking world, including its most accomplished professors and writers. 
I wonder, however, why you need to use so many words to say so little.@M. Saeed
"This man is a solid proof against India's claim of being a secular state"
We don't like to be called as secular any longer.@Umesh,  already they have also been banned!@HashBrown®,  and what made you believe that they are not in India to learn, but to approve?Election commission , supreme Court, Armed forces , civil services and constitutional democracy are saplings which grow of their own accord over a period of time into giant trees impossible to uproot.The only help needed in this transformation is that they are not uprooted and replanted again and again when they are small plants with weak roots.@Bharat Dave,
If so, then that's wrong too and two wrongs don't make a right.  Our minister Fiaz Chauhan was sacked for making nonsense remarks about Hindus.Surveys suggest Modi's ruling alliance looks set to win a majority@M. Saeed ,  : In India, Azam Khan and muslim league also exist, mate!Muslim bashing, creating communal hatred against minorities and raking up hysteria against Pakistan are common grounds on which Politicians especially extreme right wing of India seek votes from the masses. Announcing development programmes, if voted to power is relegated to the last chance. Over one third of over 1.4 billion souls of the country sleep without food. Unemployment is rampant. Most of our population in urban slums and in rural areas live in abject poverty. Prosperity grows on peace and not creating false Goliath and acquire state of art arms for billions of dollars at the expense of its citizens.Salute to Indian Election CommissionIndia can do it...But can you do it in Pakistan????@M. Saeed ,  Not the man but the verdict by EC.@KSR,  Because for obvious reason.@Sheraz,  - Correction, in India. They are free in Pakistan, as well as in Europe, USA, and Latin America.Indian democracy has powerful institutions like CAG, ECI, Judiciary etc. All such institutions make India a functioning & participating democracy.What's wrong ?@Umesh,  good move because they need Muslim vote, after this everything may go back to square one.@Deccan Hyderabadi Muslim, That is the way owaisi and his brother win elections in Deccan Hyderabad.BJP will return nevertheless...... it is in line with the international agenda.India needs to be congratulated for building a neutral Election Commission.@dany,  what is talking against the country actually is? Is saying that you don't like certain things in your country is actually being traitor? Is not agreeing with what you consider nationalism, being traitor? Is saying anything good about Pakistan being traitor? I am sure you will agree that not everything about Pakistan is bad or wrong. So is being more specific and less generalist is treason? Not sure why people can't express views that you strongly disagree with without feeling concerns for their safety@WARRIs,  This man is conscious of the majority. What majority feels or want to say about Muslims he is saying it. and openly There is a frenzy of hate against helpless and poor Indian Muslims . Wonder who is next?@Imtiaz Ali Khan,  Now you are talking.@HashBrown®,  Thank you for telling like it is. Would Indian bigots learn a thing or two from us? Probably never.3 days is a long time in politics!@HashBrown®,  It appears that you are unaware of the facts and please allow me to ask you a counter question . Are you aware as to how many countries have requested Indian Election commission Reps to conduct elections in their own countries. If only you had done some basic research on web as to how people admire the mammoth volume of population voting and the the way EVMs count the votes of almost 900 Million eligible voters @ 60-65% voting & the counting is completed in few hours and which is unparalleled in the world ; you would probably not have made the comment that so many of these international representatives who are in India are because they do not trust . These countries look up to the Indian electoral process in an awe and admiration and have come to India to get first hand experience of the election process of largest democracy in the world so as to learn lessons and implement many of these things in their own country elections. I suggest Please get your facts straight.@HashBrown®,  you have already reduced your minority to miniscule numbers now nothing is required by anyone to say anything about them.They don't matter. Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed for Dawn.Copyright © 2019, DawnScribe Publishing Platform