Democracy in action, my friends. On Tuesday morning at 7.30 the oft-overlooked third major player in the battle for Warringah, ALP candidate Dean Harris, turned up at the Manly Vale B Line bus stop to do a meet and greet with commuters, only to find another candidate already on the ground with volunteers and working hard – Tony Abbott.No problem. Plenty of room for all. The two exchange greetings, shake hands and for the next hour all those commuters boarding buses have the opportunity to chat to Harris or the one time national leader, or both, and get brochures detailing their plans. Most commuters were polite, some ... less so. At one point, Abbott was ripped into over his support of convicted paedophile George Arthur Pell. Abbott being Abbott, he took the abuse without blinking, and moved on. Still, Abbott being Abbott, there were also many passing motorists hurling unkind abuse.Former prime minister Tony Abbott with campaign volunteers in Manly in February.Credit:Jessica HromasAfter one particularly pointed insult from a passing car, the former prime minister and one-time chair of the G20 – now fighting for his political life at a bustling bus stop, dodging insults – turned to Harris and said with a rueful grin, “Sometimes public life can be very humbling.”In the words of Harris, “despite the fierce completion for hearts and minds that morning, both candidates conducted themselves with respect for the other.”The farewell the “Channel Nine piano man” Geoff Harvey, I mentioned last week – held in his home town of Bowral from Thursday afternoon under the banner of “Harvey’s Last Drinks”, and organised by his widow Katrina, and two daughters Eugenie and Charlotte, went off as expected – brilliantly.Among those honouring Harvey were Ros Packer, John Singleton, Ray Martin, Brian Henderson, a couple of the Seekers, Noeline Brown and Col Joye. There were many highlights, but none more moving than Col Joye, 81, singing with great emotion Bye Bye Baby (Goodbye) which left not a dry eye in the house.Martin and Henderson were among those telling riotous stories, none better than Hendo’s yarn of how Harvey once snuck out of a dinner party at the Henderson home to scatter seeds in a particular spot in their pride and joy, their beautifully manicured garden. Sunflowers suddenly sprouted like topsy a few days later.Next dinner party, in the wee-wee hours, John Singleton fixed the problem patch by relieving himself on it, but sadly ... nothing has grown there since! Those were the days, my friends, we thought they’d never end. There were Bach organ solos, the Channel Nine band playing Harvey hits and a tall Kalkadoon man Will Barton stealing the show by playing his didgeridoo to the chanting, clapping and cheering crowd, some 500 strong, and the last drinks going until very late indeed.The Australian musician and TV personality Geoff Harvey, who died at 83.In the words of my cousin Angus, the impresario with whom Harvey was touring when he passed away aged 83: “We should all be so lucky to have such a send off.”There are wonderful quotes, and there are wonderful quotes, but this, friends, is as good as it gets. Let’s hear from Lyle Shelton’s Australian Christian Lobby on Friday, in defence of Israel Folau’s infamous post last week, about gays and others going to hell – as they give their version of what it means to be “inclusive”.Take it away, ACL: “Far from being homophobic, Israel Folau’s social media post was very inclusive – drunks, homosexuals, adulterers, liars, fornicators, thieves, atheists, and idolaters – it is a list which includes everyone ...”Exactly. We’re all equal beneath the Southern Cross, and all going to hell together!“We are going to stand by our tradies and we are going to save their utes.” - Small Business Minister Michaelia Cash on the ALP policy pushing electric vehicles. You can’t make that stuff up!“Scott Morrison, he’s a born-again Christian, he’s probably one of the first ever born-again prime ministers, but it’s not time to celebrate at the moment ... If the Prime Minister right now doesn’t get elected in this next election there’s going to be darkness coming. And I’m not being negative. The laws are going to change where darkness is going to come and there will be persecution on the church.” - Pastor Adam Thompson from Voice of Fire Ministries to his congregation a fortnight ago.“I'm not very good at submitting things. That was the major victory. I was saying to people, 'I have won. I put it in the mailbox’.” - Vicki Laveau-Harvie, talkiing about her memoir The Erratics, which this week became the first memoir to win the $50,000 Stella Prize, awarded annually to an Australian woman writing in any genre.“Up here on the North Coast ... this is the worst area in Australia for not getting vaccinated. They go: 'It won't be my kid.' But you know what? I wouldn't have thought that either. This healthy, beautiful child - I never, ever, expected this." - Cecily Johnson, a former paediatric nurse from the NSW North Coast, whose daughter, Laine, contracted measles at 10 months old. Seven years later it caused her to develop subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, a terminal disease that left her blind and unable to walk or talk. She died in 1995 at the age of 12.“You know what’s depressing wages at the moment? You know what’s sending house prices and rent up? It’s immigration.” Tony Abbott in Manly pub on Thursday evening, with some other Warringah candidates for a Sky telecast. At this point, a woman yelled from the crowd: “Oh f**k off! You’re a migrant, Tony!”Deep within a forest, a little turtle begins to climb a tree, perpetually slipping then regaining his hold to gain a little more height. After hours of effort, he reaches the top, and – inexplicably – is seen to throw himself from the top of the tree, waving his front legs. He crashes to the ground with a thump. After recovering, he climbs the tree again and does exactly the same thing, launching himself into the air, only to whump into the ground. A couple of birds sitting on a nearby branch watch his sad efforts. Finally, the female bird can stand it no more. She turns to her mate and chirps, ‘‘Dear, I think it’s time we told little Tommy that he’s adopted.’’Twitter: @Peter_FitzPeter FitzSimons is a journalist and columnist with The Sydney Morning Herald.Copyright © 2019