Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 13, 2019 3:24 PM EDT Filed Under:
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau meets with Executive Chairman of Stelco Inc. Alan Kestenbaum in his office on Parliament Hill in Ottawa on Thursday, April 11, 2019. (THE CANADIAN PRESS/Sean Kilpatrick) It was about six months before the last Ontario provincial election that then-Premier Kathleen Wynne decided to sue then-opposition leader Patrick Brown.The lawsuit came as a result of a Sept. 12, 2018, media scrum where Brown said Ontario had “a sitting premier sitting in trial.” Wynne’s lawyers at the time said the statement was “false and defamatory” as the premier “was not on trial for bribery and has not been investigated by the police.”The lawsuit was no doubt intended as a distraction and was launched when the Ontario Liberals were in free fall in the polls, and we all know what happened next. They were decimated in the polls and reduced to non-party status. The legal manoeuvre backfired badly.It wasn’t the first time Wynne turned to the courts just before an election. In 2014 election, She launched a $2-million libel action against the Tories then leader, Tim Hudak, and MPP Lisa MacLeod (Nepean-Carleton) over comments about her alleged role in former premier Dalton McGuinty’s cancellation of gas plants in Oakville and Mississauga. Things were settled out of court in 2015.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau stands alongside Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne (right) during a funding announcement for the Toronto waterfront in Toronto on Wednesday, June 28 , 2017.

Chris Young /  

THE CANADIAN PRESS
She went on to win the election, which probably emboldened her to do it again in 2018. The first time worked like a charm, the second not so much.We’re now seeing Prime Minister Justin Trudeau channelling Wynne’s tactic from last September by sending a libel notice to opposition Leader Andrew Scheer six months before the election. Trudeau borrowed Wynne’s playbook but obviously didn’t read the conclusion.Trudeau is experiencing a freefall in the polls as well as a result of LavScam and other scandals. Not to mention the long list of failed promises, such as reforming the voting system and balancing the books by 2019.The 2015 political golden boy, who fancied himself playing Mr. Dress-up in India, has seen his star power sucked into the black hole we saw last week.The Liberals are now trailing the Conservatives and according to a Nanos Research Poll it’s mostly because of the tarnished golden boy himself.Nik Nanos said: “The most significant effect has been the negative impact on the prime minister’s personal brand.”An Ipsos poll found Trudeau’s approval rating of 40% was below U.S. President Donald Trump’s 43%.How does Trudeau intend to change the channel? A libel lawsuit against Scheer for comments he made about the LavScam ordeal.Trudeau said with a straight face: “I think highlighting that there are consequences short-term and long-term when politicians choose to twist the truth and distort reality for Canadians, it’s not something we’re going to put up with.”All because Scheer said former Attorney General Jody Wilson-Raybould’s submission provided “concrete evidence that proves Justin Trudeau led a campaign to politically interfere in SNC-Lavalin’s criminal prosecution,” and the entire affair was “corruption on top of corruption on top of corruption.”Trudeau added: “I think it’s important that all politicians be straight with Canadians in how they characterize their own actions and their own beliefs. I think we’re going to have an election in the coming months, you can’t be inventing things, you can’t be lying to Canadians.”Again, sounds a lot like Wynne’s lawsuit against Brown.When the Globe and Mail broke the SNC-Lavalin story on Feb. 7 alleging that PMO aides had put pressure on JWR to tell her prosecutors to drop criminal charges against the Liberal-friendly company, Trudeau flatly called the story, “false.” It was, in fact, true. Top Liberal aides, including the so-called impartial public servant Michael Wernick who has since departed, have all spoken of the pressure that was put on JWR to order her prosecutors off the case.Trudeau should drop his partisan lawsuit and focus on fulfilling his promises instead of trying to change the channel. He’s the last one to lecture other politicians about telling the truth.We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN