Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.
A subscription is required to continue reading.

Thank you for reading PressofAtlanticCity.com. If you are a current subscriber you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click Sign Up or Login to activate your digital access. If not, please click Sign Up to subscribe and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information, or you can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles.

Thank you for reading PressofAtlanticCity.com. Please click Get Started. If you are a current subscriber you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. If not, we ask that you purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information, or you can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles.
Please log in, or sign up for a new account to continue reading.Thank you for Reading.
 We hope that you continue to enjoy our free content.Welcome! We hope that you enjoy our free content.Thank you for Reading.
 On your next view you will be asked to log in or create an account to continue reading.Thank you for Reading.
 On your next view you will be asked to log in to your subscriber account or create an account and subscribepurchase a subscription to continue reading.Thank you for signing in! We hope that you continue to enjoy our free content.Please purchase a subscription to continue reading.

Thank you for reading PressofAtlanticCity.com. If you are a current subscriber you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. Please click Sign Up or Login to activate your digital access. If not, please click Sign Up to subscribe and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information, or you can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles.
A subscription is required to continue reading.

Thank you for reading PressofAtlanticCity.com. Please click Get Started. If you are a current subscriber you are granted an all-access pass to the website and digital newspaper replica. If not, we ask that you purchase a subscription and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information, or you can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles.
Your current subscription does not provide access to this content.
Please support local journalism by becoming a digital subscriber or adding digital to your newspaper subscription. If you’re already a subscriber, click below to continue.Sorry, this zipcode is not in our deliverable area for this subscription service.Re-enter zip code or sign up for digital access.Get digital accessPlease confirm you are in our delivery area Bayside Medium Security State Prison in Leesburg Cumberland County.ThurJul27/06A former inmate at Bayside Medium Security State Prison in Leesburg, Cumberland County, has filed a lawsuit alleging a corrections officer there assualted him.Staff Writer Bayside Medium Security State Prison in Leesburg Cumberland County.ThurJul27/06A former inmate at Bayside Medium Security State Prison in Leesburg, Cumberland County, has filed a lawsuit alleging a corrections officer there assualted him.A lawsuit filed last week by an Atlantic City man claims a corrections officer assaulted him during his time at Bayside Prison in Maurice River Township two years ago.Dontae Hathaway, 33, of Atlantic City, filed the suit in New Jersey Superior Court alleging that on April 13, 2017, an officer punched and pepper sprayed him unprovoked while he was cleaning railings outside the building.The officer involved contends that Hathaway threw a cleaning bucket to the ground and swung at the officer when he was asked to perform extra work, according to a report written by a sergeant and sent to the state Department of Corrections following incident. The officer then used pepper spray and struck the inmate’s face, the document says.David Jarashow, Hathaway’s attorney, said the events unfolded outside the range of cameras.Following the incident, Hathaway was transferred from Bayside Prison to Southern State Correctional Facility half a mile away on Route 47.“Bayside Prison is notoriously tough for inmates,” Jarashow said. “It’s the most resisted prison by those who are convicted. ... Dontae was trying to avoid any conflict, but at Bayside, it found him.”The Department of Corrections declined to comment on pending litigation.Hathaway, who was serving a 10-year sentence for drug and weapon charges, claims in the lawsuit that the officer called for backup and five other responding officers began “punching, kicking and kneeing (him), and pulling out clumps of hair from his Islamic beard.” The suit says the assault came days before Hathaway submitted a grievance to the prison saying he felt harassed by the officer.A disciplinary hearing was held in the prison two weeks after the incident where Hathaway was found guilty. Hathaway’s attorney later attempted to appeal the decision.The suit claims there is a pattern of abuse at Bayside Prison that officers cover up.“Prisoners are rarely, if ever, found not-guilty at court line hearings in the New Jersey state prison system,” the complaint reads.Hathaway had called a relative a day before the alleged assault to say he was being harassed by an officer. After the incident, his family started an online petition and took to social media with the hashtag #JusticeForDontae.The petition, which has since been removed from GoPetition.com, stated the family wanted Bayside Prison to “ensure the safety of (its) residents.”Contact: 609-272-7258 AZoppo@pressofac.com Twitter @AvalonZoppoThe state Department of Corrections is investigating after an inmate was involved in an inci…BRIDGETON — The family of a man who committed suicide at the Cumberland County jail in May h…BRIDGETON — Six suicides over the last three years, and recent criminal charges against coun…BRIDGETON — Three Cumberland County corrections officers have been charged in two separate i…EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP — A former paramedic is taking AtlantiCare to court next month alleging wrongful termination after a patient under his car…A former Millville police captain filed a civil lawsuit against the city and the chief of police earlier this year alleging he was forced into…Staff Writer{{description}}Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
                        racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
                        person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
                        or anything.Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
                        that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
                        each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
                        accounts, the history behind an article.
PLEASE BE ADVISED: Soon we will no longer integrate with Facebook for story comments. The commenting option is not going away, however, readers will need to register for a FREE site account to continue sharing their thoughts and feedback on stories. If you already have an account (i.e. current subscribers, posting in obituary guestbooks, for submitting community events), you may use that login, otherwise, you will be prompted to create a new account.
