
Saturday 20 April 2019

Aamanda Lee Myers

April 13 2019 8:07 PM

US authorities have recaptured a 15-year-old boy who escaped from a Southern California juvenile facility after being charged with killing his mother.
A "very good lead" led officers to a McDonald's restaurant in Anaheim, where Ike Souzer was taken peacefully into custody on Friday night, Orange County police spokesman Mike Peters said.The teenager was given medical treatment for puncture wounds on his leg that might have come from his escape, Mr Peters said.Souzer escaped the Orange County Juvenile Hall, somehow got onto a roof and then jumped a perimeter fence just after midnight, according to Steve Sentman, chief probation officer for the county.Jail staff spotted Souzer on the roof, then turned on a facility-wide alarm and called the sheriff's office, he said.Mr Peters said deputies were "very quick" to respond, but Souzer was able to elude capture.The sheriff's office released surveillance footage showing Souzer tending to an apparent wound on his leg shortly after escaping and then walking casually away from the facility.Dozens of law enforcement personnel, including FBI agents and federal marshals, searched for the boy.Mr Sentman said it was the first escape from the 434-bed facility in at least two decades and that an investigation is under way into how it happened.Souzer has been in custody since he was 13, when he was arrested on suspicion of fatally stabbing his mother, 48-year-old Barbra Scheuer-Souzer.The teenager's escape came in the middle of his trial on a murder charge in juvenile court, officials said.A Gofundme page for Ms Scheuer-Souzer said she was so good at helping her son with autism that she went back to school to help others with the condition and was about to graduate from the University of California, Los Angeles."Through her unconditional love and commitment, she helped her son go from non-verbal to verbal status," according to the page."Her whole goal was to help her son and the autistic community by giving back and serving the needs of others."Ms Scheuer-Souzer had three other grown children and three grandchildren.
Press Association
Tom Hays AN HEIRESS to a multi-billion dollar fortune has pleaded guilty in a case involving a cult-like New York group of creating a secret harem of sex slaves for their self-anointed spiritual leader.Doina Chiacu and David Morgan Congressional Democrats took legal action on Friday to gain access to all of U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller's evidence from his inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, as the probe's...Holly Baxter 'OH my God. This is the end of my presidency. I'm f***ed," Donald Trump said when he learned about the appointment of a special counsel, we found out after the release of the Mueller report.Today's news headlines, directly to your inbox every morning.

Sign Up

Climate change protesters at four key sites in London... 
BRITISH MP Diane Abbott has apologised "sincerely"... 
Some 180,000 bees kept in in hives on Notre... 
Players who took part in the #Enough campaign... 
Dozens of motorbikes and cars have been set on fire in eastern Paris as a yellow... 
A woman who lost her baby son and husband within... 
AN HEIRESS to a multi-billion dollar fortune has pleaded guilty in a case involving a... 
A man has fought off several dingoes to save his 14-month-old son from one of the... 
A suicide blast rocked the Afghan capital Kabul during a gun battle with security forces. 
Congressional Democrats took legal action on... 
The number of people arrested in connection... 
Donald Trump said he was "having a good day"... 
President Donald Trump reacted to the... 
Organisers behind the climate change... 
US attorney general William Barr reiterates... 
Sydney police has reunited a homeless... 
US President Donald Trump explains his... 
A tour bus carrying German tourists crashed on Portugal’s Madeira... 
Footage from the scene in Edinburgh where Trainspotting 2 star Bradley... 
Photographs taken on March 1, 2018 and of the same... © Independent.ie 