Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutMay 20 fashion show will be from 6 to 9:30 p.m. at the Grand Harbor Golf Club, 4985 Club Terrace, Vero Beach. Tickets are $75.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. The 2019 spring collections of four local designers will debut at Grand Harbor in a May 20 fashion show benefiting mental health services at New Horizons of the Treasure Coast and Okeechobee.Models and designers, many wearing Mochachino NY LA couture, at the Grand Harbor fountain, from left, first row, Sheri Altic, Christine Hughes, Laura Guttridge, Marianna Greer, Bonnie Mixon, Lewana Dupree, Mary Angel, and Jodi Harvey; second row: Sabre Mochachino, Crystal Appadoo, Dana Hagood, Nadja Ricci, and Lauralie Sammons; third row: Yvette Jones Pryor, Jerrica Knowles, Cammy Ioannides, Nithchel Marcelin-Joyce, and Paula Bushell. (Photo: Spencer Rutledge/Special to TCPalm)"Jazz, Art and Fashion" features a complimentary Champagne reception, silent auction, the Indian River Charter High School Jazz Quartet, vocalist Dana Ashton, speaker Veronica Kolibab, and 30 area women wearing custom couture by Mochachino NY LA, Vivre Couture, Starwear US, and Annalise Bean. The evening is presented by Mixon Properties.“This event is like no other in Vero Beach,” said Jodi Harvey, the fashion show coordinator and owner of Fashion Addict. “We are not showcasing boutique apparel -- only original designs by four amazing fashion designers who are living and working in this area.”Bonnie Mixon is CEO of Mixon Properties and presenting sponsor of "Jazz, Art and Fashion, " a May 20 fundraiser for New Horizons of the Treasure Coast (Photo: Michael Huneke/Special to TCPalm)The fashion show will be from 6 to 9:30 p.m. at the Grand Harbor Golf Club, 4985 Club Terrace, Vero Beach. Tickets are $75, available at www.nhtcinc.org/events or call 772-696-2729. Sponsorship opportunities are still available.Sabre Mochachino is a New York designer who has shown at New York Fashion Week and is now based out of Fort Pierce. His couture designs have been part of the annual New Horizons show since its inception two years ago. His line of luxurious women’s apparel ranges from chic day wear to sleek evening gowns.VIDEO: Listen to the Indian River Charter High School Jazz QuartetVivre Couture is the brainchild of Kristen Alyce, a resident of Jensen Beach who has also shown at New York Fashion Week. Her high-end collection combines contemporary style with wearable art. The apparel is actually made of art canvas, which is painted by artists from around the globe.Mary Angel has been operating her national swimwear company, Starwear US, out of a studio in Vero Beach for nearly two decades. Her conventional-to-outrageous designs can be found in swimwear catalogues and online boutiques. Thornton also offers custom pieces, such as bridal bikinis for beach weddings and physique competition wear.VIDEO: Fashion designer Mochachino's fashion show for Grace Way Village
    The tropical climate surrounding the Old Fort Pierce City Hall Sept. 8 was no match for the beautiful models preparing to take the runway at the sold-out "Undeniable" fashion show, showcasing designer Sabre Mochachino and benefiting Grace Way Village. Video by TCPalm.com. Photos by MaryAnn Ketcham.
    Treasure Coast NewspapersAnnalise Bean is a 17-year-old designer from Okeechobee whose delightfully whimsical collection is inspired by her rural roots.Among this year’s models are Bonnie Mixon, Diamond Litty, Laura Guttridge, Sheri Altic, Lauralie Sammons, Christine Hughes, Nadja Ricci, Marianna Greer, Dana Hagood, Jerrica and Alice Knowles, Lewana Dupree, Paula Bushell, Stacie Evans, Nithchel Marcelin-Joyce, Christina Appadoo, Crystal Appadoo, Samantha Bucci, Yvette Jones Pryor, Erin Ferber, Whitney Olive, and Jasmine Murray.“These women are active in the community and, along with all of the participants, are creating an engaging platform to discuss mental health issues,” said George Shopland, CEO of New Horizons.In addition to Harvey, the planning committee comprises Lisa Rymer, Fe Domenech, Anne Erickson and Brenda Bradley.Funds raised at the event, which also is sponsored by Butterfly Pharmacy among many other businesses and individuals, will help cover mental health services to the homeless and low-income residents of Indian River County.New Horizons is the largest mental health and substance abuse recovery agency in the region, with nine offices across four counties serving 14,000 children and adults, regardless of their ability to pay.To learn more, visit www.nhtcinc.org or call 772-696-2729.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.  