Police chief talks about taking care of the mental health of Sudbury’s police officers
Greater Sudbury Police Chief Paul Pedersen

John Lappa / John Lappa/Sudbury Star 
Knowing his officers are at their best is important to Greater Sudbury Police Chief Paul Pedersen.Following this week’s monthly meeting of the police services board, Pedersen spoke a little about the force’s commitment to mental health and wellness.“Injuries that we can see, we’ve always done a good job of treating — broken legs and broken arms,” Pedersen said. “Injuries of the mind, we haven’t done so well on. So over the past few years we’ve really become robust in building a prevention plan.”As Pedersen said, the big challenge for the Greater Sudbury Police is “breaking down stigma.” By talking about mental health and raising awareness of the risks, as well as the signs and symptoms of hardship, Pedersen said he hopes to change perceptions.“We’re trying to break down that ultra tough role that comes with the profession of policing that says our minds are bulletproof,” he said. “We realize they’re not. Our post-traumatic stress disorder plan is all about providing prevention and resiliency, and support when that doesn’t work.”Addressing PTSD amongst first responders is legislated by the province through the Supporting Ontario’s First Responders Act, which came into effect in 2016.“This new legislation created a presumption that post-traumatic stress disorder diagnosed in first responders is work-related,” a report presented at the monthly meeting notes. “The presumption allows for faster access to WSIB benefits, resources and timely treatment. The Act is part of the province’s strategy to prevent or mitigate the risk of PTSD and to provide first responders with faster access to treatment and the information they need to stay healthy.”The Greater Sudbury Police Service has “a long history and commitment to the psychological health and well-being of members throughout their career” and has instituted a number of programs to support officers who may be experiencing some hardship. In April 2017, the board adopted the service’s PTSD prevention plan.“The plan details the various programs and services the service has available to addressmember wellness,” the report notes. “These avenues are both reactive and proactive inclusive of education initiatives to increase awareness and reduce the stigma around mental health and to promote an environment that supports mental health interventions.”In addition to PTSD, the employee assistance program also offers help with stress, gambling addiction, substance abuse, bullying and harassment, anxiety and depression, as well as marital issues and elder care.“Significant efforts are made to ensure the psychological health of members is maintained,” the report states. “Pre-hire, police officers must participate in a psychological screening and one-on-one visit with the service psychologist. Once hired, all recruits meet with the service psychologist prior to attending the Ontario Police College, on their return and one year following return. Communicators who are involved in dispatching police calls also receive the support of our service psychologist through in-service training.”Pedersen said stress and anxiety can be common ailments amongst police officers and others on the front lines.“As much as we know what comes with the job, it’s still very traumatic to see people in tragic circumstances — people losing their lives or becoming victims of child abuse,” Pedersen noted. “I often say we put on body armour to protect us from the physical threats, but what armour do we have for our minds?”Pedersen also said social media has become another frontier officers have to navigate. They can be held “to a standard of perfection” that is simply not sustainable, or even realistic.“All of those cause occupational stress injuries, all of which take a toll on our members,” Pedersen noted.Some divisions of the GSPS receive more structured care, since they are considered to be at higher risk. These areas include forensics, cyber crime, major crime, the tactical unit and traffic services.The GSPS also has a critical incident response team in place, which consists of members with highly specialized training and skills.“The team provides immediate peer support and access to resources for members who have been involved in potentially traumatic events,” the report states. “The goal is to monitor members post-event and offer support services where identified.”Pedersen also tipped his hat to staff in the communications centre, who deal with hundreds of 911 and emergency calls daily.“(Callers) are almost always in crisis and they’re almost always in a challenging situation, sometimes life-threatening, and they don’t have the opportunity to see the call through to closure,” he explained. “They don’t go to the call and help somebody. What they do is dispatch a police officer who then gets the closure. We recognize we have to offer support to our communicators, as well.”mkkeown@postmedia.comTwitter: @marykkeown705 674 5271 ext. 505235  Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
				© 2019 Sudbury Star. All rights reserved.
			A member of Sun Media Community Newspapers part of Postmedia Network.
A member of Sun Media Community Newspapers part of Postmedia Network.