Police officers were also in attendance at the scene to ensure the protest remained peaceful Protesters have gathered outside of one of Stoke-on-Trent’s most popular attractions to campaign against the family nude-swimming session being held there this evening.   Around 20 people, some wearing branded t-shirts, arrived at Waterworld in Festival Park at around 7pm and were standing close to the entrance.   British Naturism has organised the event which is open to adults and children of all ages.   Staffordshire Police were also in attendance at the scene to ensure the protest remained peaceful. Natasha Whitlock, aged 59, from Telford said: "It’s a peaceful protest. We’re from the Facebook group Paddy’s Exposure which  was set up to expose peadophiles.  "There’s going to be quite a few people coming and possibly some paedophile hunters. We are just going to stand and protest against it  because it’s wrong on so many levels.   "I know people who were able to buy tickets online and no background checks were done. Not all peadophiles are convicted.   "It’s exposing kids, anyone can buy tickets online and CCTV cameras won’t pick up everything.  The 51-year-old said: "This shouldn’t go on. It’s children, our children, and we don’t want to expose them to this.   "We don’t know what background checks are being done to check the sex offenders register, and I don’t see how they can check their history.   "I’ve not been here for long and there’s been half a dozen men go in on their own."  And Michael Coleman, aged 50, from Weston Coyney, said: "I don’t think it’s right for adults to be parading around naked in front of  children, it’s immoral.  "I’m not suggesting they’re wrong doers, but this could lead to the sexualisation of children. If adults are taking their clothes off around children there’s a sexual aspect to that." Earlier today, Peter Wright, manager of the legal department at British Naturism, defended the event saying every member of the group is strictly vetted and those on the Sex Offenders Register are not permitted to join.He said: "We have 9,000 members - an increase of 1,000 people since last year - and no-one who is on the sex offenders register is permitted to join."Each year, we hold six or seven events and each one is a chance for like-minded people to get together and enjoy themselves."Naturism is a philosophical belief in a natural, naked lifestyle, a healthy, wholesome lifestyle shared by millions in Britain and in Europe."The events we hold are very carefully managed. There is always a safe-guarding officer at the swims and we work very closely with the police."We care for our children just as much as any other sector in society and so it is absurd for anyone to suggest that we would allow them to be abused for any reason."  Want to tell us about something going on where you live? Let us know - Tweet us  @SOTLive or message us on  our Facebook page . And if you have pictures to share, tag us on Instagram at  StokeonTrentLive .  