These streets were once the pride of north east ManchesterThey were once the pride of north east Manchester, immaculate homes for working men and women - let only to the very best tenants.But by the summer of 1994, Miles Platting's 'Tripe Colony', once pristine rows of terraced homes, were in a pitiful state. A report in the Manchester Evening News, published two weeks before they were erased from the landscape forever, painted a bleak picture of 'roving thieves who wandered the Colony's streets looking for anything worth stealing'."The Colony is a sorry collection of boarded-up houses, burned-out buildings and rubble strewn streets," was the damning verdict. Leacroft, a school for disabled children, held a party in Corelli Street to say goodbye before the wrecking ball finally moved in.Staff brushed away broken glass and rubble and strung bunting between the vacant, tinned-up houses."It's a bit like being in the middle of a war zone, but we've managed to keep the children happy", nursery nurse Catherine Murray told the M.E.N.But it wasn't always that way.The sad demise of the Colony - 25 years ago -  was particularly poignant considering how revered it once was as a place to live.Its evocative name was inspired by the family which built it - tripe magnates the Pendleburys.Family patriarch John Pendlebury had launched his family-run tripe business in the mid nineteenth century with compensation he received for the loss of his hand.His empire included a tripe works in Simpson Street, Bradford, and a shop on the corner of Forge Lane and Ashton New Road.John also branched out into the construction business with one of his sons, George William, with the aim of building superior housing for the working classes which had bathrooms and were let at affordable rents.When John retired, one of his other sons, John Richard joined the construction firm, which became GW and JR Pendlebury Builders and Contractors. Marjory Houlihan's 1988 book, A Most Excellent Dish: Tales of the Lancashire Tripe Trade, describes how the family were extremely discerning when it came to choosing who would live in the properties. Prospective Tripe Colony tenants were visited at home and meticulously vetted, they had to show their rent books and prove they were clean and tidy - and clean living - people, before they could even be considered.And so, at the turn of the 20th century, on a piece of land bounded by Clifton Street, Hulme Hall Lane and what was then Lord Street, now Lord North Street, hundreds of smart terraces were built in Accrington brick.Many of the people who lived there worked in the Pendlebury's tripe business.Tenants had to live by a strict set of rules set out in their rent books. Keeping birds and whitewashing the back yard were just two of a number of things that were prohibited.But the fastidious approach to keeping standards high helped build the Colony's reputation as a desirable place to live.By the 1950s, tenants were given the option to buy their homes, before the rest were bought in the 1970s by what was then the Manchester Corporation.Alex Pandolfo and his family moved to the Colony from Ancoats when he was a toddler.His parents had worked hard to be able to afford their own home, and purchased number 20 Wimbourne Street for the princely sum of £500 in the mid 1950s.The Tripe Colony was an ideal place for a young Alex to learn what all children eventually discover - that the way other people's families do things is not always the same as your own.  He recalls stepping into the home of a friend who lived nearby, and being absolutely baffled. Photos of Winston Churchill and Queen Elizabeth II adorned the walls, right where his own parents kept pictures of the Pope.And the little font of holy water, which the devout Catholic Pandolfo family kept by the front door, was nowhere to be seen.Most shockingly of all to the schoolboy, the family were tucking into rag puddings filled with meat - on a Friday.From the outside, the homes were almost identical, and set just streets apart, but it felt like a world away to young Alex.And so it was on the Tripe Colony. Working people from different faiths and backgrounds lived, and often worked, side by side. "It was all working class people but there were still big cultural differences," says Alex."If you lived on the Tripe Colony, if you were a Catholic child, you went Corpus Christi and the Protestants went to St Luke's or Nelson Street."To those of a certain age, tripe needs no introduction. But the once hugely popular dish has fallen out of favour in the UK over the years. So for the uninitiated, tripe is the stomach lining of a farm animal, most commonly cows.Depending on which of a cow's four stomachs it's from, tripe can have a honeycomb appearance.  It regularly graced the tables of many a British home throughout the 20th century and earlier, often served up with onions after being boiled in milk.   Because it contains so much connective tissue, tripe lends itself well to slow cooking, to break it down. Life wasn't always easy for the son of an Italian father and Irish mother in post-war Britain, and Alex often found himself on the receiving end of prejudice. But it made him toughen up."Dad was from Italy and mum was from the Republic of Ireland. We were subject to dreadful racial abuse," he says."I was either a thick Irish b*stard or an Italian sh*t house."My granddad used to say 'don't take any stick about the war' they were calling us cowards because we wouldn't fight for Mussolini."It was never that bad, but I had to learn to fight as a kid."My granddad would say, 'hit them but hit them once and when they are getting up, explain to them you are not a coward'."I used to fight, even on the Tripe Colony."But the youngster and his pals also found plenty of ways to entertain themselves.They called themselves the 'Yo Gang' - so called because they would stand in the alleys between their homes and shout out 'yo' until other children came to join them."Our key playing areas were the canal for swimming in the summer and where the fire station is now, which was just swamp ground and you'd throw stuff in a quagmire of chemical waste," says Alex. "We used to go in the (canal) locks to swim, it was best to swim where the locks were because it was deeper. "When we was feeling brave we'd chance our arm with the parkie (park keeper) at Mather and Platts fields. You'd get caterpillars there."There was the Playhouse on Oldham Road, we used to go there. There was the Minors' Matinee. You'd get tuppence and be able to walk there. My auntie worked on the confectionery."At the age of eight or nine I became a monitor and you'd have to show the kids where to sit. There would be be some cartoons,  Pathé News and then it was Tarzan in the early days."Everybody wanted to be Flash Gordon, then the black and white Batman and Robin came out. There would be a break and a guy would get up and get you all singing the Minors' ABC song, and we'd have to sing."Alex's father worked for the National Coal Board, and the family lived a relatively comfortable life, eventually building a small extension to house a dining room at the rear of the terrace."You had the outside toilet. In the winter you had to take a candle and a stick with you to break the ice, but it was great because you had your own toilet, and a tin bath in the living room on the wall."I was lucky because dad was a good worker, he didn't drink or smoke so we got a bathroom put in at the back."My dad converted the parlour into a bedroom for me, which was great because I could sneak out of the sash window when he went to bed."They were long terraced houses, there would be rows and rows, we were at number 20, and on the corner of every one there was a shop. I bet there was 100 plus houses in every street."Two up two down would be the modern term. We had carpets fairly soon, and if you didn't it was the flags in the house."We got an extension built on the downstairs, a glass building that was the dining room."I think we were one of the first people to have a television in about 1958. People were always coming round. There was only BBC on it originally."Everyone had a sideboard and as near as you could to a three piece suite."Off the living room was the kitchen, where you'd get bathed."If you come out the Tripe Colony out of Lord Street back up Hulme Hall Lane, there would be a canal and a great big wash house and that's where you'd go for a bath once you started getting too old to bath in the kitchen. "On the left in our kitchen was a cooker, then a serving hatch and pantry because there were no fridges."We were lucky, we had a washing machine, a top loader and then once a week you'd get a bath in the tin bath."When I first moved up the roads were cobbles and the pavement was flags, and that was what was inside your house."The front bedroom must have been the best one because everyone's mum and dad slept in the front room, and then one at the back for the kids."You didn't knock on people's doors, the door was always open and you'd just walk in, the women did that more than men because they were usually at work."Alex got expelled from school when he was 14 and went working with his dad. He was paid £9 a week. £6 of which he immediately handed over to his mum.He eventually moved away from the Tripe Colony when he was 16.The teenager dipped into his life savings and paid £39 for a two-week holiday to Lloret de Mar in Spain.He liked it so much that he decided not to come home, and spent the next few years travelling the world.The Tripe Colony meanwhile, remained occupied until the 1990s.This summer marks a quarter of a century since the old homes were torn down, as vast swathes of north east Manchester were razed to the ground in anticipation of the regeneration that would eventually transform some parts of the area over the coming decade.Today much of the former Tripe Colony site still stands empty, its periphery is dotted with industrial firms and the site of the Vermillion restaurant.Some road names from the time, including Corelli Street and Falmouth Street endure to this day.Others, including Wimbourne Street, Joynson Street and Helston Street, exist now only in the memories and anecdotes of those who once called it home.Alex still has fond memories of his childhood on the Tripe Colony and laments the loss of the community."I think that sense of community and belonging has gone," he says. "These days people seem about being one up from the other, or doing them a mischief."No one robbed anyone's house, because no one had anything anyway."I remember someone breaking into someone's house, trying to sell a record player that got nicked, and they got beaten up for trying to sell it."It was parochial within that Tripe Colony, but you knew everybody."With thanks to Manchester Libraries and Archives. Images courtesy of Manchester Libraries unless otherwise stated. See more photos of Manchester at images.manchester.gov.uk 