Wendy Williams Divorce – What Does It Mean For Her Financial Empire?What will the Wendy Williams Divorce mean for her million dollar empire? (Photo by: Lloyd Bishop/NBC/NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images) photo credit: NBCU Photo Bank via Getty ImagesIt has been reported that Wendy Williams has filed for divorce from her husband of 22 years Kevin Hunter.  This divorce comes amid rumors of infidelity in cheating. It has been alleged that Hunter has fathered a child with a long-time mistress.  We also know that Williams has admitted to suffering from substance abuse. Recently revealing that she has been living in a sober living house.The couple has built quite an empire together.  They are estimated to have a net worth near $60 million dollars.   Between books, endorsements and hosting the Wendy Williams show – Wendy rakes in an estimated $15 million dollars per year.
Last Friday, I had the pleasure of appearing on E! News to discuss the financial ramification of this monster divorce.  As a Certified Financial Planner™ I regularly work with people rebuilding their financial lives after major changes like becoming a widow or widower, not to mention divorcing.   The process is hard enough without the enhanced scrutiny from the media and fans.  Adding to the fun, they both have worked together for years on the Wendy Williams Show.While I can comment on the financial planning ramifications of divorce, I reached out to Family Law Attorney Maryam Atighechi to delve further into the nitty-gritty of what this divorce might look like.Family Law Attorney Maryam AtighechiHere are a few highlights from our conversation.David Rae: How Public Do You Think This Divorce Will End Up Being?Maryam Atighechi: The Wendy Williams divorce will most likely be predicated upon a settlement offer to keep things quiet.  The divorce will probably open and shut fast given Wendy does not want to be the center of her own "hot topics" show.  A strong, confidentiality clause and a global settlement figure to finalize the case are the only two things that will most likely happen in that divorce.Rae: Translation: Wendy Williams may spend through the nose to get this over quickly and quietly. Rae: What Does a Fault Divorce Entail?Atighechi:  If the case were to be litigated and since New York is a fault state, then the issue of her husband's adultery and having a child with another woman could definitely be grounds to divide the estate in favor of Wendy Williams. Since Wendy knew about the mistress, it can be inferred that they have probably been separated for many years and are just now divorcing. There are two types of states with respect to divorce- a fault state or a no-fault state.  In a no-fault state, the courts do not take into consideration the grounds for filing when dividing the estate, including adultery.  For example, in California, a no-fault state, whether your spouse cheated is entirely irrelevant.  It cannot be used in any way to gain an advantage.  In a fault state, you can bring in evidence of cheating to gain a financial advantage.Rae: Since we spoke, it has been reported that Williams filed for a no-fault divorce.  Why she chose to go this route is anyone’s guess.Photo by: John Nacion/STAR MAX/IPx 2017 9/23/17 Wendy Williams at The Global Citizen Festival 2017 in New York City.Rae: How will their Empire Be Divided?Atighechi:  In terms of dividing assets, you have a lot of prospective financial issues with celebrities.  They enter into contracts now for future royalties or endorsements.  Those future royalties or endorsements could vest after a divorce but the contract was entered into during marriage potentially making it all community property.Rae: Translation- it can get messy and complicated.  This will go beyond who gets the house or the car.   Williams loves her big baubles, what they are worth today versus what they cost will likely be a contentious issue when dividing their assets.Rae: It is believed that Williams and Hunter do not have a prenup.  Why should someone get a prenup?Atighechi:  Prenups… The best way to protect yourself in that circumstance is to enter into a prenup.  If you are a high earner and thinking about marriage, get a prenup.  I cannot stress that enough.   I like to prepare what I like to call "couture prenups."  The prenup should be carefully designed and tailored to protect that client's unique interests.     It takes a lot of negotiation and crafting but the end result should protect the client.    You can only do that with a prenup that is uniquely tailored to that client with every word being contemplated when you have a high asset estate to deal with because those cases are complex and require more crafting.Rae: I would like to add that I’ve heard Maryam call “the prenup queen.”  That being said as a financial planner I do recommend people of mean, or on second/third (and beyond) marriages to consider the benefits of a prenup.It will be interesting to see how this all turns out.  When money is on the line things tend to get more complicated, and there are millions and millions of dollars on the line here.The Trump Tax Plan and Divorce SettlementOne last note I'd like to add here- how alimony or palimony is taxed has changed under the Trump Tax Plan.  If I was advising Wendy or Kevin (I am not) this would play a role in how assets were divided.  Previously the higher earning spouse could deduct and alimony/palimony they were paying their ex-spouse.   The person receiving the payments would be responsible for the taxes.  For divorces finalized in 2019 (and beyond) the spouse paying the alimony or palimony will be responsible for the taxes due on the money.  If I had to guess, I think it is safe to assume Wendy Williams will continue to be the bigger earner in this pair, at least as long as her show is on the air. For a Free Copy of My Ebook 10 Tips To Get Your Financial House In Order CLICK HERE.  For more fun visit  Fiduciary Financial Planning Site. Or Follow  on TWITTER or FacebookDavid Rae a Certified Financial Planner™ and Accredited Investment Fiduciary® helping people make smarter financial decisions since 2003.   Investopedia has name David o...