A MAN sexually abused his stepdaughter as other members of the family were in the same house, a court heard. The man, 39 – who cannot be named to protect the identity of the victim – started abusing the victim when she was 13, jurors were told.He allegedly “forced” her to have sex and believed he was in a relationship with the girl, reports Cornwall Live.The man would also touch her sexually, made her perform oral sex and on some occasions anal sex, Truro Crown Court was told.The prosecution further alleges the mother nearly caught the man, her partner, using his fingers sexually as they were playing Xbox.He has appeared in court with 16 charges of sexual activity with a child, and three charges of voyeurism, between 2010 and 2013 in the St Austell area.The man denies all charges.Heather Hope, prosecuting, said: “They spent a lot of time together, they were really close, watching films on the sofa, and he was the father figure in her life. “She didn’t really understand what he was doing or why he was doing it, he feel asleep with his hand down her trousers. That was just after her thirteenth birthday”"He used those activities to be able to sexually abuse her."She would start staying up increasingly late, usually on a Friday and Saturday. He would sit downstairs with (her) and watch films together while mum was upstairs in the bedroom watching TV."The first time something happened was when she and the defendant were sitting on the sofa watching a film, and she describes lying with her head on his lap, and she remembers him drinking."He started putting his hand down her trousers, which progressed to him touching her bottom and then vagina."She didn’t really understand what he was doing or why he was doing it, he feel asleep with his hand down her trousers. That was just after her thirteenth birthday."Ms Hope added the defendant asked the girl not to tell her mum about what happened as she “would get angry”.She added:  "After this she was scared and confused by what had happened, she asked him, and describes him looking happy as he told her."She felt horrible and it wasn’t something she wanted to do. After this, they would have sex regularly. "Usually with him under the influence, he wouldn’t say anything, he would just grab her and have sex with her."The trial continues.A FORMER  Fiancé of Vicky Pattison says their stormy relationship pushed him to the brink of suicide.PAEDOPHILE football star Adam Johnson’s £2million new mansion is close to one of the region’s busiest dogging sites.STONER gatherings have sparked up across the UK, as Brit smokers head out to celebrate 420, also know as World Cannabis Day.Copyright ©2019 Express Newspapers. "Daily Star" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.