Donald Trump will have something to hate tweet about this afternoon.The Pulitzer Prizes awarded two hard-hitting investigations into the 45th president during its annual ceremony on Monday. The New York Times earned a prize in explanatory reporting for an 18-month investigation into the elaborate steps that Trump and his family went to in an effort to avoid paying taxes. The piece was written by David Barstow, Susanne Craig and Russ Buettner.The paper also recognized the staff of the Wall Street Journal in the national reporting category for breaking the story that Trump and his attorney Michael Cohen paid Stormy Daniels hush money in order to cover up an alleged extramarital affair. Trump has previously taken issue with the Pulitzer Prizes that were handed out in 2018 to stories that examined his campaign’s ties to Russia, claiming that Robert Mueller’s “no collusion” findings meant that the reporters should return their honors. The South Florida Sun-Sentinel earned a public service prize, considered the Pulitzers top award, for its look at the mistakes and failures made by education and law enforcement officials before and after the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Seventeen students and staff members died in that attack. The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette received an award for breaking news reporting for its coverage of another deadly shooting — the massacre at the Tree of Life synagogue that left 11 people dead.The Los Angeles Times’ report on a University of Southern California gynecologist who allegedly abused hundreds of young women earned a prize for investigative reporting.The Pulitzers also honor the best in literature, theater, and music. To that end, Jackie Sibblies Drury’s “Fairview,” a piercing look at race and class in America, won the Pulitzer Prize for drama, beating out Clare Barron’s “Dance Nation and Heidi Schreck’s “What the Constitution Means to Me.” The show debuted at the Soho Rep, playing to sell-out crowds. After being extended three times, it closed last summer, but will return Off-Broadway in June for an engagement at Polonsky Shakespeare Center in Brooklyn.The late soul singer Aretha Franklin earned a special citation from the Pulitzer committee. Franklin, whose hit songs include “Respect” and “Chain of Fools,” died in August at the age of 76. Composer and sound artist Ellen Reid won the music prize for “Prism,” a look at sexual assault that premiered last fall at the Los Angeles Opera.Novelist Richard Powers won the Pulitzer for fiction for “The Overstory,” a panoramic look at nine Americans whose lives become entwined because of their experiences with trees, and David W. Blight picked up the prize in history for his acclaimed biography “Frederick Douglas.” Jeffrey C. Stewart’s “The New Negro: The Life of Alain Locke,” a look at the life of one of the founders of the Harlem Renaissance, received best biography honors, while Eliza Griswold’s exploration of an Appalachian family, “Amity and Prosperity: One Family and the Fracturing of America,” earned a non-fiction prize. The committee also gave a special citation to the staff of the Capital Gazette, a paper in Annapolis, Md. that was the subject of a deadly attack in June that resulted in the murder of five employees.The Pulitzers are administered by Columbia University and come with a $15,000 cash award. The Capital Gazette will receive an $100,000 award.Not all the surprise collaborations happened at Coachella this weekend. Seattle’s foremost male and female musical exports, Brandi Carlile and Dave Grohl, teamed up for a mini-set Saturday afternoon in their hometown, setting up shop as buskers in front of the popular shopping site Pike Place Market. Unlike most of weekend 2 of Coachella, this [...]UPDATED with statements from John Singleton’s family and FX Networks John Singleton, the Oscar nominated director and writer of “Boyz N’ the Hood,” has suffered a stroke. Sources confirm to Variety that Singleton checked himself into the hospital earlier this week after experiencing pain in his leg. The stroke has been characterized by doctors as [...]Though Childish Gambino’s weekend two Coachella set didn’t vary too much from his electrifying first one, it did feature a new but familiar face. When Gambino popped backstage during a band feature, accompanied by the cameramen that made his set in part like watching a concert film on a massive screen, Grammy winning musician Chance [...]Sour Matt might be one of the most mysterious yet well-respected figures in the cannabis industry, as well as a growing force in the music business with which it intersects. With more than 100,000 followers on Instagram alone, he describes himself as “someone who likes to connect the dots, working with other creatives to build [...]“Carmine Street Guitars” is a one-of-a-kind documentary that exudes a gentle, homespun magic. It’s a no-fuss, 80-minute-long portrait of Rick Kelly, who builds and sells custom guitars out of a modest storefront on Carmine Street in New York’s Greenwich Village, and the film touches on obsessions that have been popping up, like fragrant weeds, in [...]Parents just do understand the importance of Coachella. Jaden Smith was joined in the Sahara tent Friday night by father Will for a performance of “Icon” — as Instagrammed by the proud papa. The footage of Will Smith rapping was shot by Jaden, who turns his smartphone camera around just long enough to photobomb his [...]Anderson .Paak & the Free Nationals took the Coachella stage at the second weekend of the storied fest as the sun descended, but the musician’s fiery set was more than enough to light up the audience. The performance, which featured pyrotechnics including fireworks and flames alongside the rapper’s slinky stage moves, was relatively heavy on [...]
		© Copyright 2019 Variety Media, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Business Media, LLC. Variety and the Flying V logos are trademarks of Variety Media, LLC.		Powered by WordPress.com VIP
Access exclusive content© 2019 Penske Media Corporation