Published: April 14, 2019 Updated: April 14, 2019 1:15 AM MDT Filed Under:The beauty of the National Hockey League playoffs is that they are full of unlikely heroes.Nathan MacKinnon is not one of them.It was completely logical that the Colorado Avalanche sniper and one of the best players in the NHL would score the overtime winner in Saturday’s 3-2 victory over the Calgary Flames.Tying the first-round series 1-1, the 23-year-old cut to the middle of the ice, was fed by Mikko Rantanen, and drove to the net only to release a deadly shot to beat Mike Smith glove side. Everything about it was perfect and it had to be on this night.The 37-year-old Flames netminder had been on fire all night and robbed MacKinnon on his previous six offerings on net.“The guy is a world-class player and if you give him too many open looks, he is going to find a way to get one past you sooner or later,” Smith said. “He ripped that one pretty good. Obviously, you’d like to get a piece of it. But it is what it is.“You move on.”

Calgary Flames goaltender Mike Smith stops this Colorado Avalanche scoring chance during game two Stanley Cup playoff action in Calgary on Saturday April 13, 2019. Gavin Young/Postmedia
With the series tied 1-1, the Flames will move onto the Mile High City and Denver’s Pepsi Center for Games 3 and 4 on Monday and Wednesday (8 p.m., CBC, Sportsnet 960 The Fan).It was a volley-set-spike chain of events from both sides during a game full of mistakes and wonderful drama and speed that evolved into NHL’s third overtime playoff game of the day.Even the game-winner was preceded by a could-have, would-have chance from Matthew Tkachuk and Michael Frolik on the other end of the ice.Sean Monahan nearly blew the roof off the Scotiabank Saddledome when he broke the 1-1 deadlock with 7:33 remaining in the third period, a solid shift that saw both Johnny Gaudreau and Sam Bennett battle to keep the puck in the offensive zone.

Calgary Flames Sean Monahan celebrates after scoring against the Colorado Avalanche in game two of the Western Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at the Scotiabank Saddledome in Calgary on Saturday, April 13, 2019. Al Charest/Postmedia
But the building fell silent with 2:39 to go when a goalmouth scramble, a few bounces off Travis Hamonic’s skate, and a shovel from Avalanche forward J.T. Compher tied the game 2-2 and forced overtime.“They’re holding pucks and cycling,” said Flames captain Mark Giordano. “When we got that one in the third, we got some energy. But it was a tough bounce on the tie and then a good play on the winner and good goal by them.“Tough way to lose, but there’s these moments all the time in playoffs and you’ve got to deal with them and move on.”

The Colorado Avalanche score on Calgary Flames goaltender Mike Smith to tie the game late in the third period of game two Stanley Cup playoff action in Calgary on Saturday April 13, 2019. Gavin Young/Postmedia
Perhaps the Avalanche were always destined to win this game, knowing they needed to be better after Calgary stormed out to a 4-0 win in Game 1 on Thursday.The visitors lapped up the Flames’ overly aggressive approach on a second-period powerplay and created three short-handed rushes.One was broken up by a back-checking Elias Lindholm and Monahan; the other ended with a Smith save on Matt Calvert who was trying to connect on a two-on-one (prompting a smattering of “SMIT-TY, SMIT-TY” chants).The third time? They weren’t so lucky.Matt Nieto pick-pocketed TJ Brodie along the boards and was able to beat Smith on a breakaway, a goal that cannot be blamed on the Calgary netminder who had stopped 44 straight shots until that point.

Calgary Flames goaltender Mike Smith reacts after giving up a goal to Matt Nieto of the Colorado Avalanche in game two of the Western Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at the Scotiabank Saddledome in Calgary on Saturday, April 13, 2019. Al Charest/Postmedia
“I thought we didn’t play our game at the start, for sure,” Giordano added. “We were letting them taking it to us physically a little bit too much in the first. As the game went on, especially in overtime, we had our looks, we had our chances … but we have to be better.”Flames rookie Rasmus Andersson scored his first NHL playoff goal when he slammed home a cross-ice feed from Sam Bennett on a man advantage, knotting the game 1-1 at 12:26 of the second, the powerplay drawn by Mark Giordano immediately following a delay-of-game penalty when Smith had sent a clearing attempt over the glass.

The Calgary Flames’ Rasmus Andersson scored on Colorado Avalanche goaltender Philipp Grubauer during game two Stanley Cup playoff action in Calgary on Saturday April 13, 2019. Gavin Young/Postmedia
As for their start, Nikita Zadorov sent a message to Matthew Tkachuk seventeen seconds in when the Avalanche defender recorded the first hit of the game.And while Smith replied with a sharp left hook into the side of Derick Brassard’s coconut when he crashed into the big goalie’s crease, Colorado delivered the final blow.“I thought obviously they were a desperate team down one (game) and they were playing well,” Giordano said. “You’ve got to give them credit too. But we’ve got to be a lot better, a lot harder on pucks, and a lot more compete out there. I thought in the first they were desperate, way more desperate and we can’t let that happen.”At the first T.V. timeout, just 7:41 in the game, there had already been a combined 11 hits between the teams (six for Colorado and five for Calgary), Calgary had blocked five shots, Smith had repelled seven Avalanche attempts and belted Brassard.Speaking of Smith, it only took only 36 seconds for the first “SMIT-TY, SMIT-TY” chant to erupt after he tossed aside a wrist-shot from MacKinnon. The theme continued throughout the game.

Calgary Flames goalie Mike Smith makes a save on a shot by Gabriel Landeskog Colorado Avalanche in game two of the Western Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at the Scotiabank Saddledome in Calgary on Saturday, April 13, 2019. Al Charest/Postmedia
In the end, Smith stopped 36 of 39 while his counterpart Philipp Grubauer kept his eighth-seeded club in the conversation against the Western Conference champions, turning aside 35 of 37.“You’re always thinking in overtime that it’s going to be an ugly goal, but it was a great shot,” said Avalanche head coach Jared Bednar. “And you had the feeling it was going to take a great shot to beat Smith.”kanderson@postmedia.comwww.twitter.com/KDotAndersonWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Calgary SUN