
run75441 | April 13, 2019 1:00 pm
A President Falsely Charging ‘Treason.’The Constitution: “Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort.”Article III; Section 3: Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court.The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment of treason, but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture except during the life of the person attainted.Trump: “I think what the Democrats are doing with the Border is TREASONOUS. Their Open Border mindset is putting our Country at risk. Will not let this happen!”Conor Friedersdorf, The Atlantic: “’As having an ‘open border mindset’ is not levying war against America nor giving aid and comfort to its enemies, Trump is guilty of levying a false accusation of unsurpassed gravity and additionally guilty of violating his oath to protect and defend Article III, which defines treason as ‘only’ those offenses.’”I find it difficult to take Trump seriously although I should take him seriously, we all should do so, and we all should work our hardest to make him a private citizen again with the potential of him going to prison afterwards. If two women doing bribes to get their kids into name-brand schools can be charged, then why not Trump for his past frauds? Trump the master dealer maker of fraud and lies. It is not over.Having Ms. Pelosi as the Speaker of the House was fortuitous for this nation. She knows how to deal with those who have the mindset of a child. Please note the mini-clap of hers after Trump gave his SOTU address to Congress. 


 Comments (17)  | 
Digg
Facebook
Twitter
 | 


I can think of a few things that were treasonous. Nixon in 1968 having his political hacks in the State Department undermine LBJ’s efforts to reach a peace deal with North Vietnam. And for this – this traitor was elected President.How VP Dick Cheney outed a very valuable CIA team looking into Iran’s nuclear threat aka PlameGate. And for this – Bush-Cheney was reelected in 2004.All sorts of stunts pulled by Donald Trump in 2016. Whatever happened to that traitor?“Having Ms. Pelosi as the Speaker of the House was fortuitous for this nation. She knows how to deal with those who have the mindset of a child. Please note the mini-clap of hers after Trump gave his SOTU address to Congress.”OMG. That was the best 2 minute clip CNN has ever produced. Thanks!Treason was bantered about enough in the spying revealed false accusation related to Russia.Trump is incorrect in using the word “spy” for what the Obama’s federal  employees did.  The more accurate term is they plumbered in an attempted coup against the electoral. processes of the US!Since you brought up the Electoral process, it is near impossible to adulterate the Electoral process except for making it extremely difficult for people to vote which did occur in select states, none of which were Dem. The Electoral process or College in a winner-take-all scenario is based upon that vote of the population and the Electoral College votes according. What has created the issue many Dems complain about is the 1929 Reapportionment Act which froze the numbers of Representatives at 435. The Founding Fathers never intended for this to be. The numbers of Representatives was meant to increase based upon a growing population. There was “never” an intent for Congressional districts to be an average of 700,000. If we were to base the size of a Congressional District at 586,000 which is the population of Wyoming or 586,000 and is the least populous state, California would gain 14 more Representatives and subsequent Electoral votes. Even that number is too big and the Founders had planned for a Congressional District to be 40,000 so a Representative would know his people and their interests. That is too small in today’s world. A manageable district could be ~250,000.There is also no need for Representatives to be in Washington D.C. when they could just as easily WEBX in for hearings from regional sites. Today much of the population is under represented. Taking or changing the Senate would not change this issue.Ilsm, you argument is silly and flawed.ilsm,They did?  Nothing they did damaged Trump’s efforts at all.  If they had publicized what they found out, that might have done so, but they did not.  Instead, Comey publicly reported that the FBI had reopened an investigation of Hillary Clinton 11 days before the election, only to withdraw that just before the election.  This triggered her lead in the polls to shrink sharply and almost certainly tipped the election to Trump rather than her.So the extent there  was plumbering, it favored Trump strongly.Quisling Trump.  Not too sure how familiar folks are with the World War II concept of Quisling: a traitor who collaborates with an enemy force occupying their country.Okay, technically we are not occupied by the Soviet Union — but Trump openly undercut our security forces by knowingly pretending that Russia did not interfere with our election.  That makes him a traitor anyway.  We all knew what he was all along but his latest crazy act of threatening to dump and “unlimited supply” of illegals (to use his nomenclature) on so-called sanctuary cities may be enough to finally sour enough souls on him that maybe we can make it stick now.  Impeachment I mean.Deliberately covering up a foreign adversary (our number one adversary!) is de facto treason.Technically we are not occupied but “Quisling” has such a perfect ring to it in his case.DD,I was Air Force, I am retired I go on an AFB all the time and talk to a lot of people like me.Define “our security forces”, I am at a loss I have 30 years active and reserve Air Force and I don’t  nor did see me as part of a “security” force.   Most of the military I know have far less problem with trump than any democrat.   None of us fear threatened.  Possibly because none of us listen to Rachel Maddow.Barkley,Obama’s plumbers had no more effect on the Nov 2016 outcome than Nixon’s.  The most troubling feature of the subversive actions (against the election process) in 2016; those plumbers were the FBI and the CIA.They did not attack Trump so much as the US’ electoral “process”.Ilsm:I am X-Military and even in the military I had a problem with Vietnam like many of my brothers-in-arms. It was a senseless war which we should have never been involved in then. 58,000 of us disappeared. And yeah, you are right they were less of an issue than Trump. Trump is unfit to be president. The most troubling feature of Trump’s election is what Barkley described. And no, you do not know the electoral process.Ilsm,
Quisling tells the world a deliberate lie that our most dangerous adversary (Putin; I don’t blame the Russian people) did not interfere with our national elections.  That is the equivalent of deliberately lying to Pearl Harbor radar operators by telling them all those incoming dots are American planes.Run,The professional military did their job in Vietnam.  Politics and questioning are not in the job description.  You should worry not having draftees today and the long war goes on.My copy of Wm Prochnau’s Once Upon a Distant War was given to me by a professional soldier.  You should read it!Comey’s coming out was about SA’s ready to talk to the press…… My jobs involved federal record act responsibilities and safeguarding information….. the public has a right to know, while critical information must be safeguarded.How Clinton is not in jail is a big issue which should be run to ground by Barr.DD,I am a bit slow on the up take.  Trump undercut nothing associated with the “common defense”.  What Trump scares are the “security forces” abused by Obama: CIA and FBI.  They are 21st century Tsarist Cossacks.  Trump has done less to Obama’s Cossacks than Cheney outing Plame.Can anyone here explain to me why prior military service endows ones opinions on national politics with any special insight? My personal experience is that people who once served in the military are no better than the rest of us.Joel:It is typically used as a card to play when nothing else one says will work. There are even certain levels of it. If you were in Vietnam, you are cast as more worthy than others. If you are served during that era in other places over seas, you are not the same. If you were not 0311 infantry, you are not the same either. Because I had a brain, I was trained and became a 2881 (repairing KY8s, KW7s, etc. – TS stuff) even though my shooting skills far exceeded those around me and my athletic ability was up there also.Here is how it plays out Joel. I watched a Veterans Committee meeting in my County which has a $1 million fund to be used for “all” veterans in need. One of its members solicited a donation and received a $400 check which he asked it to be made out to him. He was also given certain sundry items by the person making the donation. With these donations you make a public record in a financial report of the money and other items and the disposition of it. The donation was ok until months later the person making the donation asked for a receipt for tax purposes. The person receiving the donation could not give a receipt unless he made a public announcement of the money and other items. He spent the money and of course he had a dilemma now. It is funny how sunlight works.It came out that the money was spent. So in this meeting a contingent of Vietnam Vets came down and said how they had served then in the sixties and seventies in the field or as a  cook, candle stick maker, etc. I listened to this for an hour or so. It f*cken does not matter what they did or what the idiot who spent the money did years ago. You can not spend public funds with out accounting for it. The story goes he bought a plaque for the sheriff’s department office and tossed in some of his own money to get it >$500 in total.So they all parade up there and testify how they served and how the guy they are speaking for is a wonderful fellow. People in my county have gone to jail for writing bad checks and with this guy the political county prosecutor chose not to do a  thing. As I pointed out, it does not matter what you did in the war. It does matter what you are doing now. You can not misappropriate money because you served in some far off place or never left town. I can also be an AH publically too.Sure we did something in the past a minority of the population has done. It is not an answer to a statement and is a sidestep away from the real issue at hand. The best answer to ilsm is to let him cite his military experience and call it a non sequitur to the discussion. Denis used the Pearl Harbor radar as an example of ignoring reality in front of you. Trump is a liar. Denis made this comment after ilsm made his on the AF. Previously, there was no comment on the military. My comment is a big “so-what” to what we have done previously as it has no bearing. I can make a “so-what” comment to ilsm because I did serve. He did pull the “professional” military card out. What did Eisenhower say about the military?I hope you understand my stance on this one-ups-manship being played here. You are correct in your last sentence. I have seen it too.Hell Joel and Run,I did two years…as a conscientious objector.  What counts is now. Kudos.Dan:Like I said, it does not make a hill of beans anymore. Glory days are gone. Joel,I am different.  I started out keeping weapon systems, radars, etc. working.  Then I grew up to planning things like moving units fast to reinforce…… as well as keeping them “ready” to perform.  As a civilian I managed acquiring systems use of lot of past experience and learned about taking ‘problems’, devising solutions and delivering hardware.  I worked doing the same thing as guys still in uniform.When I converse with veterans who were in a short time I see a difference in how I think.  When I am with individuals with no service I feel different.When I say I have experience I warn you I am coming from a viewpoint you may not have a “feel for” if you have not been there.  I rarely appeal to authority of my experience unless it is technical like why you should not listen to the media about Boeing 737 Max 8!I spend a little time with a disabled veteran of the long war, she has scars you cannot see.  Her service dog is one sign.  We all served.@Ilsm,You may indeed be “different,” but not in any way that obliges me to concede an argument from authority on politics. On this thread, you appear not different than any other person paid public servant. I, too, have spent time with people whose scars you cannot see. Kudos for the time you spend with people in need. It is utterly irrelevant to using your military service as a prop to elevate the significance of your personal opinions. Opinions, my friend, are like nose hairs; everybody’s got ’em.According to the TV, the Quisling and his minions are still pushing opening the borders and dumping all the incoming into sanctuary cities.  Last week, I thought the Traitor gave himself away as not really wanting to get re-elected (he don’t like to hassle) when he jumped immediately from a good attack stance over the Mueller report right into trouble trying to kill all of Obama Care.  Now, with sticking to the immigrant dumping craziness I think he actually wants to get impeached!  Tiresome going back and forth between watching Fox in DC and playing golf on the weekends in Florida — over and over again.  Just gets too boring.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Name * Email * Website Comment 

Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
 


                                Dan Crawford                            
                                run75441                            
                                Barkley Rosser                            
                                Robert Waldmann                            