Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutThe impact of homelessness is degrading cities big and small all across California. We are desperate for direct, continual state homeless funds.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        California is home to one quarter of the nation’s homeless, where cities bear the brunt of California’s homeless crisis. The frontlines of this crisis are on city streets, in our parks, business districts and neighborhoods. All the public nuisance, human suffering, interference with commerce, and health and safety risks occur on local city streets, in local business districts, parks, around the schools, in riverbeds or at the coast.The impact of homelessness is degrading cities big and small all across California. We are desperate for direct, continual state homeless funds to address the daily crisis on the frontlines.Gone are the state’s mental health facilities, adequate substance abuse programs, support programs for people exiting prison, or sufficient housing vouchers for the homeless. The state’s responses have been slow and focused on future housing. State funding also comes to counties and directly to only the Big 11 cities. But all cities need direct help. And we need it now.To make matters worse, recent local policies have not, do not, and cannot resolve homelessness. The typical response focusing on policing and criminalizing the homeless has been expensive and ineffective. Cities have enacted anti-camping ordinances, ripped park benches and picnic tables out of parks, turned park lights off at night, or turned them all on to prevent the homeless from sleeping. And of course the courts in turn have ruled against such actions.The reality is that homeless individuals can be in public spaces. Our police officers can't, and shouldn't, arrest people merely for being in a public place. Most cities strictly enforce the vagrant behavior committed by homeless individuals. This behavior includes drug activity, trespassing, aggressive panhandling or having open alcoholic beverages. Recent state legislation and ballot initiatives, right or wrong, have significantly minimized the consequences for these types of crimes so enforcement is less effective. Individuals can, and do, accumulate dozens of arrests and citations and still freely roam around downtown, period. Cities’ general-fund coffers are being drained in order to respond to complaints about homeless activity, nuisance and encampments. Millions of dollars continue to be spent chasing homeless individuals from place to place, removing and storing their belongings, and cleaning up after encampments. These whack-a-mole policies have cost cities millions of dollars yet yielded little to no resolutions for the homeless. All we have done is move groups of homeless away from one angry business district into a nearby neighborhood, only to quickly anger those neighbors. And then, repeat. Over the past two years, Oxnard has expended $3 million addressing the impacts of homelessness, $2 million of that for policing, however our homeless problems have worsened.The community’s frustration about homeless nuisance has reached a point where the homeless are no longer seen as human beings. As an improvement over chasing homeless people around town, and to manage the deafening complaints, cities are putting resources towards sheltering programs.However, sheltering ultimately does not resolve homelessness. We know it’s time to refocus our efforts and pursue the Housing First program, a proven model to resolve homelessness, adopted by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and accepted by the State of California. However, we cannot wait for the state housing funds to arrive and then wait for housing to be constructed.While that is necessary, it is part of the longer-term solution. We cannot afford to address the crisis on our streets and invest in housing solutions at the same time without proper funding. Cities need direct and continual state homeless funding; not via counties and not only the Big 11 cities. All cities need state funding now. This crisis is worsening.Alexander Nguyen is the city manager of Oxnard.