Published: April 14, 2019 Updated: April 14, 2019 12:29 AM MDT Filed Under:They call him ‘The Beast.’In an NHL locker-room, they don’t just hand out a nickname like that to anyone.In the eyes of his Calgary Flames teammates, Elias Lindholm has more than earned the moniker this season, though.To them, he’s ‘The Beast’ or ‘The Swedish Beast’ if you’re talking to head coach Bill Peters.“He’s ‘The Beast’ for a reason, the ‘Swedish Beast’, “ Peters said prior to Saturday’s Game 2 against the Colorado Avalanche. “He plays hard. He’s got a little dirt in his pocket, he likes it, he’s a gamer.”Lindholm showed why he’s going by the new nickname in Thursday night’s series opener at the Scotiabank Saddledome when he delivered five hits on various Avalanche players. Only Garnet Hathaway had more in Game 1 for the Flames.In Game 2, it was more of the same.Lindholm landed a big hit on J.T. Compher midway through the first period and was a generally physical presence throughout.None of it is the least bit surprising to the rest of the Flames.“His nickname in the locker-room is ‘The Beast’ and it’s for a reason,” said Sam Bennett, no stranger to the physical stuff himself. “This year, he obviously put up incredible numbers, but he has that grit and the power to play the body and play physical.”While Lindholm has never been considered soft by anyone, it wasn’t his hitting that put him on most people’s radar in his first season with the Flames.Instead, it was the 27 goals and 51 assists that really caught the eye as he played next to Johnny Gaudreau and Sean Monahan on the Flames’ first line.Through two games this series, though, he’s been in Beast-mode.“There’s lots of nicknames but he’s a guy who plays hard,” Peters said. “He’s strong, he’s physical on faceoffs. He’s got a bit of a hockey body to him. He’s thick down low, heavy, powerful guy and he relishes it.”AROUND THE BOARDSIt’s not every day where you see a goalie get four minutes in penalties in a single game, but Mike Smith just had that sort of night on Saturday. Smith took a roughing penalty in the first period for his role in a little scrum with Derick Brassard. In the second, he took a delay-of-game penalty after firing the puck over the glass … When you’re playing the way Smith has been playing for the first two games of the season, the coaches probably aren’t going to get too upset about those penalties … Brassard, by the way, seemed to be doing everything in his power to give the Flames a chance. He took six minutes of penalties in the first two periods alone … Saturday night’s 8:30 p.m. start wasn’t ideal for a lot of people, but the Flames weren’t complaining about having to get things going so late. In fact, Peters said he had no complaints at all about his team’s playoff schedule. “We don’t change time zones, we play every other day,” Peters said. “I don’t know that anybody’s got a better schedule than we have.” Newspaper writers with deadlines, on the other hand, were definitely complaining … You get the feeling that if this series goes long enough, everyone in Calgary is really going to hate Compher by the time it’s through. That’s a compliment, to be clear, and it’s not just because he scored the Avs’ second goal to tie things up in the dying minutes. The guy hits and was getting under the Flames’ skin, too.

Calgary Flames goaltender Mike Smith stops this Colorado Avalanche scoring chance during game two Stanley Cup playoff action in Calgary on Saturday April 13, 2019. Gavin Young/Postmedia
OFF THE GLASSThe Red Lot next to the Saddledome was jam-packed for Saturday’s game after the weather refused to co-operate on Thursday. Thousands of fans were gathered around the big screen and it was good to see. Still think it could use a better name, though. Just because it’s literally in a parking lot and there’s a lot of people wearing red doesn’t mean we have to go with the most literal possible description for the name … Game 2 wasn’t a perfect one for TJ Brodie … Weirdest call of the night Saturday was when Johnny Gaudreau got sent to the penalty box in the third period for embellishment after being taken down by the Avs’ Patrik Nemeth. Refs have a tough job, but that was a straight-up bad call … Sam Bennett was excellent on Saturday night, picking up two assists and earning himself a spot on the top line alongside Gaudreau and Monahan. The guy’s reputation as a playoff performer is 100% earned … Ian Cole’s cross-check on James Neal in overtime was just flat-out dumb. We may want the refs to get out of the way in OT and let the players play, but Cole didn’t leave the officials with any choice but to send him to the box … It’s not a highlight Calgarians are going to want to watch, but MacKinnon’s release on the overtime winner was incredible and a reminder of how quickly he can change a game.

Flames fans react to the action as thousands join the C of Red to watch Game 2 at the “Red Lot” community viewing party outside the Dome. Saturday, April 13, 2019. Brendan Miller/Postmedia
daustin@postmedia.comwww.twitter.com/DannyAustin_9We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Calgary SUN