Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 13, 2019 3:20 PM EDT Filed Under:
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex attend a reception hosted by the British Ambassador to Morocco, Thomas Reilly, and his wife in Rabat, Morocco, on Feb. 24, 2019. (John Rainford/WENN) Pregnant women around the globe no doubt heaved a sigh of relief upon hearing the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle, will not pose on the steps of a London maternity hospital, newborn babe in her arms, minutes after giving birth.Royal moms such as the new royal baby’s late grandmother, Princess Diana, and Meghan’s sister-in-law, the Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton, posed for photo-ops in front of the assembled world media shortly after giving birth.

Britain’s Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, and late wife Princess Diana take home their newborn son Prince William, as they leave St. Mary’s Hospital in London in June 1982. (AP Photo/John Redman)
Coiffed, styled and elegantly dressed, they strutted out onto the steps of the Lindo Wing of St. Mary’s Hospital wearing unnaturally high heels in complete defiance of all childbearing rules.This sets way too high a bar.Mere mortal moms savour every moment they get at the hospital. They know they won’t be sleeping much for the next couple of years. They dress in loose-fitting track pants to hide the residual maternity flab and walk gingerly in a dazed, hemorrhoid-induced waddle.Diana and Kate Middleton spit out heirs like Pop-Tarts. Hours later, they smiled for the cameras looking for all the world as if they’d spent the day at a spa.

Britain’s Prince William and Kate pose with the Prince of Cambridge outside St. Mary’s Hospital in London after the Duchess of Cambridge gave birth on Monday, July 22. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth)
So thank you Meghan for acknowledging that giving birth is actually hard work. It’s called “labour” for a reason.Harry and Meghan announced last week they’d not be making news of the birth public immediately, but would celebrate as a family first. Good for them.Royal tradition, rooted in the mists of time, dictated that deaths, marriages and births be celebrated very publicly — in such a way that everyone knew a momentous event had occurred.The pomp and circumstance of a royal funeral isn’t just a ploy to keep military bands in business. It wasn’t enough to say a king had died. In the pre-Twitter and pre-Instagram era, to make the succession legitimate you had to show the body of the dead monarch to the masses.But Baby Sussex, boy or girl, will be way down the pecking order — seventh in line to the throne.

Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex and Britain’s Prince Harry.
Meanwhile, Harry and Meghan will have to negotiate a minefield of U.S. tax laws. Unless she renounces her American citizenship,Meghan, as a U.S. citizen, is still liable to pay U.S. taxes, even though she’s living abroad. As the child of a U.S. citizen, the new baby will also be subject to those rules until he or she is 18 years old.These rules require disclosure of assets more than around $260,000 (CAD) and gifts more than around $19,000 (CAD).When you think of all the bling the Royals have showered on Meaghan — an eye-watering estimated $400,000 on her engagement ring, not to mention a priceless wedding band made of rare Welsh gold — you have to think the Queen is going to be keeping a tight rein on her tiaras, lest they fall prey to Uncle Sam’s tax collectors.

A diamonds and silver tiara given to Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II on her wedding day, Nov. 20, 1947, by Queen Mary is displayed on July 27, 2007, in London. (SHAUN CURRY/AFP/Getty Images)
Now that the couple have moved into their new home, Frogmore Cottage, Meghan is also said to be considering a home birth with a midwife.Her friends say she’s in great shape. It’ll be a breeze. There’s even talk she may do it drug-free. And that all sounds very forward-thinking and folksy.Home births are much more common in the UK than in Canada — although usually the first baby is born in hospital.A word to the wise, Meghan: Childbirth never goes quite the way they say it will in the yoga handbooks.Take all the drugs you can get. Embrace the epidural. Trust me, childbirth is best remembered through a painkiller-induced haze. Try a midwife and home birth, sure, but have a flying squad of obstetricians and anaesthetists on call.What will the new baby be called? British bookie William Hill is reporting 90% of punters are betting on a baby girl. The smart money is on Diana for a name, with Victoria and Alice as other favourites. Favoured boys’ names are James and Arthur.Take all the time you need, Meghan and Harry. Welcome the little one to your world, your way.Our world — and the photo-ops and the royal fishbowl — can wait.We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN