Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 13, 2019 2:20 PM EDT Filed Under:BOSTON — Mitch Marner deflected praise on Saturday morning as easily as he carved up the Boston Bruins Thursday night.After the Maple Leafs’ Game 1 win at TD Garden — during which Marner excelled and scored two goals including the winner on a penalty shot — Bruce Cassidy evoked the name of Wayne Gretzky when mentioning Marner’s elusiveness.With Game 2 of the best-of-seven series hours away, what comes to mind for Marner when he hears that sort of compliment?“It’s cool,” Marner said after the Leafs’ morning skate. “I don’t think so, but it’s a cool thing. It’s a five-man group out there, so all five guys have to work together and that’s how you be successful.”That’s true, but it’s usually Marner’s cerebral manner on the ice that leads to success for himself and linemates John Tavares and Zach Hyman, though that’s not to take anything away from the other two.

John Tavares #91 of the Toronto Maple Leafs celebrates after scoring a goal in the third period of a game against the Boston Bruins in Game One of the Eastern Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at TD Garden on April 11, 2019 in Boston, Massachusetts. (Photo by Adam Glanzman/Getty Images)
The Bruins knew Marner would represent trouble in the opener and couldn’t do much about him, and you can assume No. 16 will be a focal point for Boston, which has no desire to head to Toronto down 2-0.At the Bruins’ optional morning skate in their practice facility, winger Jake DeBrusk said he was feeling “100%” and would be ready to play after missing practice Friday. And forward David Backes will be inserted after he was a healthy scratch for Game 1.For the Leafs, there will be no lineup changes, not that any were anticipated after their 4-1 win on Thursday.Garret Sparks remains Frederik Andersen’s backup in goal with Michael Hutchinson in Toronto tending to his newborn daughter.“We’ve made our adjustments,” Leafs coach Mike Babcock said.“You’ve got lots of time, you’ve got one team (to worry about). You look at (Boston’s) individuals and players and collectively and see what you can improve on.“The series gets better and better as it goes on and so you have to dig in and make it happen for yourself. You have to eliminate your glide phase at this time of year. You’re supposed to be out there for 42, 43 seconds at a time and going as hard as you can.”Not a problem for Marner, who averaged 41 seconds a shift in 19 minutes eight seconds of ice time in Game 1.Leafs defenceman Morgan Rielly was one who agreed with Cassidy’s assessment of Marner.“He’s right,” Rielly said. “He is a great player and he can cause problems. He is very creative. He plays well with his linemates, he plays defence too — that’s the best part about him, is that he comes back and is responsible.“When you watch him play, he has confidence, he has speed, he has chemistry with his linemates. He looks good right now and hopefully he can keep it rolling.”

Mitchell Marner #16 of the Toronto Maple Leafs scores a penalty on Tuukka Rask #40 of the Boston Bruins in the second period of Game One of the Eastern Conference First Round during the 2019 NHL Stanley Cup Playoffs at TD Garden on April 11, 2019 in Boston, Massachusetts. (Adam Glanzman/Getty Images)
The Leafs have taken note of some of the results coming in other series of the 2019 Stanley Cup playoffs — especially the accomplishments of the Columbus Blue Jackets and the St. Louis Blues, who have opened with two wins on the road.“It seems like there has been a few road teams that have pulled off a couple of victories and are heading home with two in the bank,” centre Nazem Kadri said. “We are looking to accomplish that. We understand that they are going to be pretty desperate tonight and we have to match that intensity.“There is going to be a big difference from Game 1 to Game 2 in terms of that desperate aspect. So we have to be ready.”tkoshan@postmedia.comOn Twitter: @koshtorontosunWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN