List your local organization's community news in Briefly.List your local organization's community news in Briefly. Submit a press release at least two weeks prior to your dated activity. Email to ocm@wickedlocal.com, fax to 508-591-6601 or mail to 182 Standish Ave., Plymouth, MA 02360. Email is preferred, with text embedded or a text or Word .doc attached. Submissions are subject to the editor's discretion and editing. For-profit businesses should consult with our advertising reps. An extended version of Briefly can be found online at Wicked Local Plymouth as Plymouth news briefs. Household hazardous waste collectionsPLYMOUTH — South Shore Recycling Cooperative towns will host the following household hazardous waste collections this spring, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.April 13: Plymouth Department of Public Works, 169 Camelot DriveApril 27: Hanover Transfer Station, 118 Rockland St.May 4: Hingham, Plymouth River School, 200 High St.May 18: Kingston/Duxbury, Kingston Highway Department, 22 Evergreen St., KingstonJune 8: Scituate/Cohasset Highway Department, 68 Capt. Pierce Road, ScituateResidents of host towns may attend their own town's collection at no charge, with proof of residency. Residents of Abington, Cohasset, Duxbury, Hull, Middleboro, Norwell, Plymouth, Rockland, Scituate, Weymouth and Whitman may attend any SSRC collection at the town's expense, with proof of residency. Residents of Hanover, Hanson, Hingham and Kingston must obtain a signed authorization form from their town's responsible department, Board of Health or DPW, to attend out of town collections at their town's expense. Those towns may limit subsidized quantities. Residents from any town without authorization, and commercial generators, may attend any collection with a check made out to Stericycle Environmental.Latex paint is not hazardous, just messy. Check back in April to see if usable latex will be accepted separately for recycling at any of the above collections. If not, dry to prevent spillage and dispose with trash.For details, including acceptable materials, go to http://southshorerecycling.org and click on "Hazardous Waste," go to the town’s Town Hall for a flyer, or call 781-329-8318. ‘Back Roads of the South Shore’PLYMOUTH — Plymouth Antiquarian Society will present “Back Roads of the South Shore,” its 15th annual Local History Symposium, from 9:30 a.m. to 2:15 p.m. April 13 at the Spire Center for the Performing Arts, 25 1/2 Court St.Registration opens at 9 a.m. and refreshments will be served. This annual conference offers an opportunity for regional historians to present research and share behind-the-scenes projects happening at local museums and historic sites. This year's presentations will explore cross-cultural encounters at home and abroad, featuring discussions of slavery, overseas trade, immigrant communities, and one woman's experience of World War I.Admission is $15 and includes refreshments. Reservations recommended. Make checks payable to Plymouth County Convention & Visitors Bureau (or PCCVB). Mail registration and checks to Plymouth Antiquarian Society, P.O. Box 3773, Plymouth, MA 02361. If space permits, tickets may also be purchased at the door with cash or check.For more information about the South Shore History Symposium or to register, contact Anne Mason, executive director of the Plymouth Antiquarian Society, at 508-746-0012 or director@plymouthantiquarian.org.Back Roads of the South Shore is a consortium of 20 nonprofit organizations operating over 25 historic sites in twelve towns along the South Shore of Massachusetts from Weymouth to Plymouth. The group is dedicated to celebrating the history and spirit of the region. For more information, visit http://brss.org. PCA to host April eventsPLYMOUTH — Plymouth Center for the Arts, 11 North St., will host the following events.April 13-14: Artisan Shop Demo Day. This event is free and open to the public from 1-4 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. Vendors and events include South Meadow Soap Company, Wire Wrapping Sea Glass Jewelry and Wreath Making.April 18: Family Fun Day. Parent and child can experience the arts together in two sessions, from 10 a.m. to noon and from 1 to 3 p.m.. Register at http://artsplymouth.org or in person at the center.April 27: Congressional Youth Art Reception from 5-8 p.m. This event is free and open to the public in the Russell Gallery with refreshments.April 27-29: Congressional Youth Art Show from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Saturday and from noon-4 p.m. Sunday. the show is free and open to the public.April 28-29: Massachusetts Art Week Events. On April 28, design envelopes to be used for the Plymouth 400th from 11 a.m.-2 p.m. and on April 29, knit with Plymouth Harbor Knits form 11 a.m.-2 p.m. These events are free and open to the public.May 4: Opening Reception for the Fine Art of Photography from 6-9 p.m. Join the biggest international photography show on the South Shore with photography chosen from over 1100 submissions from around the world. Herring Run Mosaic Wall Project presentationDUXBURY — The Art Complex Museum and the North and South River Watershed Association will collaborate on a springtime presentation providing a chance to view and contribute to the museum’s Herring Run Mosaic Wall Project being created for the Plymouth 2020 celebration at 1:30 p.m. April 13 at The Art Complex Museum, 189 Alden St., Duxbury.Those planning to attend should bring a small rock to be included in the mosaic. It should be no thicker than half an inch and no bigger than one and one half inch in diameter. There will also be an opportunity to learn more about river herring migrations on the South Shore and how local groups are working to restore their populations. This program is free and open to all. To register, call 781-934-6634, ext. 10. Entertainment at The SpirePLYMOUTH – The Spire Center for Performing Arts presents eclectic entertainment at 25 1/2 Court St. in downtown Plymouth. The Spire is handicap accessible; parking is available street side and in public lots in close proximity. For more information, to order tickets online or to learn more about The Spire, call 508-746-4488, visit www.spirecenter.org, or follow the Spire Center for Performing Arts on Facebook.April 13: Marc Cohn, 8 p.m., $60April 16: Open Mic Tuesdays, 7 p.m., $5April 18: Walter Trout, 8 p.m., $42April 19: Vinnie Favorito, 8 p.m., $25April 20: Trinity CSNY Tribute, 8 p.m., $22April 23 : Open Mic Tuesdays, 7 p.m., $5April 24: Jazz and Blues Jam Sessions with the Spire House Band, 7 p.m., $5April 26: Magic Dick & Shun Ng, 8 p.m., $25April 27: Krisanthi sings Carole, Carly, & Karen, 8 p.m., $25April 30: Open Mic Tuesdays, 7 p.m., $5 Entertainment at British Beer CompanyPLYMOUTH — The British Beer Company provides entertainment at 2294 State Road (Cedarville). For information, call 508-747-1776 or visit britishbeer.com/location/cedarville.April 13: 2nd Chance, 9 p.m.April 17: Good Thomas Musical Bingo, 7 p.m.April 19: Mike McHugh, 9 p.m.April 20: Sugar Bears, 9 p.m.April 24: Good Thomas Musical Bingo, 7 p.m.April 26: Brian Duchaney, 9 p.m.April 27: Ramblin Band, 9 p.m. Allman Betts Band plays PlymouthPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present The Allman Betts Band at 7:30 p.m. April 14 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St.After a year touring as The Devon Allman Project with special guest Duane Betts, the sons of Gregg Allman and Dickey Betts are joining forces to form The Allman Betts Band. They will kick off 2019 with a new Allman Betts Band album and a Worldwide tour that will feature new music, songs from their solo projects, and classic Allman Brothers and Gregg Allman tunes in honor of the 50th anniversary of The Allman Brothers Band.Tickets for The Allman Betts Band are $29-$59, at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 800-657-8774. Pilgrim Hall Museum Kid Week programsPLYMOUTH — Pilgrim Hall Museum announced the following Kid Week programs April 15-19, sponsored by the Edgar & Pauline Main Family Foundation.First Light Native American Program with Annawon Weeden: 1 to 2 p.m. April 15. The Wampanoag people of the region are the People of the Dawn or First Light. Native American presenter Annawon Weeden shares tribal lore through song, dance and story.Big Ryan's Tall Tales: 1 to 2 p.m. April 16. Performer Big Ryan tells stories for all ages with puppets and music.Brenner's Magical Mystery Show: 1 to 2 p.m. April 17. Magician Stephen Brenner hosts a presentation of magic and mystery. Appropriate for all ages.Spring Tales of Thornton Burgess: 1 to 2 p.m. April 18. Encounter the world of children’s book author Thornton Burgess, including an array of animal inhabitants, in this story telling and craft session.Rhythm Speaks Drum Circle: 1 to 2 p.m. April 19. Percussionist Ed Sorrentino brings the beat with an array of authentic West African drums to get everyone in rhythm. Appropriate for all ages.Enjoy Treasure Hunts for all ages every day. During Kids Week, all children up to and including age 18 are admitted free. Admission for adults is $12, $10 for seniors. Free for residents of Plymouth or members of Pilgrim Hall Museum. Groups of 10 or more should call 508-746-1620, ext. 4, or email grouptours@pilgrimhall.org. All children must be accompanied by an adult. For more information, call the museum or visit http://pilgrimhallmuseum.org. Entertainment at British Beer CompanyPLYMOUTH — The British Beer Company provides entertainment at 6 Middle St. For information, call 508-747-1776 or visit britishbeer.com/location/plymouth.April 15: Good Thomas Musical Bingo, 7 p.m.April 16: Jeff Rosen, 9 p.m.April 18: Jeff Hilliard, 9 p.m.April 22: Good Thomas Musical Bingo, 7 p.m.April 23: Fil Pacino, 9 p.m.,April 25: Jeff Hilliard, 9 p.m.April 29: Good Thomas Musical Bingo, 7 p.m. Pilgrim Hall Museum lecture: ‘Jewish Women During the Holocaust’PLYMOUTH — Pilgrim Hall Museum, 75 Court St., will present “Jewish Women During the Holocaust” as part of its Spring Lecture Series at 10 a.m. April 17.Holocaust educator Ronnie Hirschhorn will consider the role of Jewish women in the Holocaust and their participation in efforts to resist repression and genocide.April lectures are free and open to the public. Seating may be limited and is available on a first-come basis; no reservations. For more information, call 508-746-1620, ext. 7, or contact erin.fein@pilgrimhall.org. Spaulding Rehabilitation educational seriesPLYMOUTH — Laurelwood at the Pinehills, 10 Golf Drive, will host a Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital Cape Cod educational series at 1 p.m. April 17. Lori Brightman, physical therapist from Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital Cape Cod, will be presenting “Staying in Control: A Rehabilitation Approach to Managing Incontinence in Women and Men.” To RSVP or for more information, contact Debra Hyson or Brenda Gellar at 508-927-6346 or brenda@laurelwoodatthepinehills.com. Plymouth Evening Garden Club fundraiserPLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Evening Garden Club will host a fundraiser featuring Brian Lieb, Mass Orchid Society president, at 7 p.m. April 17 at the Plymouth Center for Active Living, 44 Nook Road. Lieb will speak on Orchids 101 and present a demonstration on repotting orchids.Tickets are available for $10 per person and can be purchased by contacting Patty O'Brien at 508-747-2641. Tickets need to be purchased by April 2 to assure adequate seating. Proceeds go towards civic beautification, programs and scholarships. PCA Family Fun DayPLYMOUTH — Plymouth Center for the Arts, 11 North St., will host a Family Fun Day from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. April 18. Children ages 6-12 can enjoy Acrylic Pour and Clay Hand Building from 10 a.m. to noon and Drawing and Clay Hand Building from 1 to 3 p.m. Admission is free. For more information, call 508-746-7222 or visit http://artsplymouth.org. Kiwanis Breakfast with the Easter BunnyPLYMOUTH — Kiwanis will host Breakfast with the Easter Bunny at 9 a.m. April 20 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Attendees can make crafts and take photos with the Easter Bunny and more.Cost is $10 for adults and $5 for kids. Children younger than 3 are free. For tickets, visit http:/kiwanispancakes2019.eventbrite.com. Pilgrim Hall Museum lecture: ‘Black Flags, Blue Waters’ PLYMOUTH — Pilgrim Hall Museum, 75 Court St., will present “Black Flags, Blue Waters: The Epic History of America’s Most Notorious Pirates” by Eric Jay Dolin as part of its Spring Lecture Series at 10 a.m. April 24.Dolin will reveal the history of America’s golden age of piracy, from the late 1600s through the early 1700s, including how colonists first supported pirates, then came to violently oppose them. Copies of the book will be available for purchase and signing.April lectures are free and open to the public. Seating may be limited and is available on a first-come basis; no reservations. For more information, call 508-746-1620, ext. 7, or contact erin.fein@pilgrimhall.org. SSCAC monthly meetingPLYMOUTH — The South Shore Community Action Council Inc., 71 Obery St., will hold its monthly board of directors meeting at 6 p.m. April 24. For more information, contact Jack Cocio, CEO, at 508-747-7575, ext. 6238. Winter Farmers’ Market PLYMOUTH — Plymouth Farmers’ Market is held from 2:30 to 6:30 p.m., Henry Hornblower II Visitor Center, Plimoth Plantation, 137 Warren Ave., Plymouth. Indoor season runs from November through May, the second and fourth Thursday of each month. Regional farmers and artisans provide fresh seasonal fruits, vegetables, eggs and dairy, cheese, pasture-raised meats, baked goods, breads, herbs, honey, cut flowers, plants and artisan skin care. Free and open to the public, year round. For information: plymouthfarmersmarket.org. Next market: April 25. Plymouth Area League of Women Voters to host Candidates NightPLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Area League of Women Voters will conduct a Candidates Night at 7 p.m. April 25 at Plymouth Town Hall, Great Hall, 26 Court St.The following individuals are running for two open seats for a three-year term on the Board of Selectmen: Alan Costello, Patrick Flaherty, Shelagh Joyce, Kevin Lynch, Frank Mand and Tony Provenzano.Lisa B. Reilly and Dennis Sampson are on the ballot, competing for a one-year position on the Plymouth Housing Authority. The five-year and three-year seats on the Plymouth Housing Authority are uncontested. Other uncontested races are those for School Committee, Planning Board, Redevelopment Authority and Town Moderator.The program will be telecast live on PAC TV. Consult local listings for the times of rebroadcasts. Senior Housing Education seminarPLYMOUTH — Helping Hands Community Partners Inc. will host a Senior Housing Education seminar at 11 a.m. April 25 at Plymouth-Zion Evangelical Church, 384 Court St.Joe McParland will encourage an interactive conversation about “Should I stay, or should I go” regards to aging in place. McParland will highlight his concern for older homeowners of “freezing in place” as a result of not having all the information and ultimately making no decision at all about housing.Helping Hands Community Partners Inc. is the South Shore’s only local nonprofit mortgage company. Their mission is to strengthen communities by educating people about homeownership options, and when appropriate, can arrange mortgages. To make a reservation, contact McParland at 508-958-3590. ‘Rockin’ the Secrets of Plymouth Rock’PLYMOUTH — Residents are invited to meet author Diane Finn and composer Candido Bretto as they share the story and music for “The Secrets of Plymouth Rock” at 1 p.m. April 27 at Mayflower Society House, 4 Winslow St. This full-color children's book is written by Finn, a Plymouth school teacher, and is illustrated by her daughter, Erin Finn Zell. The book tells the history of the Plymouth Rock from the rock's perspective. It was written for preschool to third grade children.Attendees will hear the story of Plymouth Rock read by the author, be able to purchase an autographed book, listen and sing along with the music composed by Candido Bretto, take a quick stroll to Plymouth Rock with the author and composer as Finn shares more historic details about the rock’s journey; and return to the Mayflower House for a brief activity. Walking tour is sponsored by Plymouth Night Tours. For more information, visit http://thesecretsofplymouthrock.com. No Place For Hate Family Friendly Coffee HousePLYMOUTH — The Town of Plymouth’s No Place For Hate Committee will host its third free Family Friendly Coffee House, “Standing on the Side of Love,” from 7 to 10 p.m. April 27 at the Church of the Pilgrimage, 8 Town Square.This event will feature three hours of free music and entertainment with Rick Mulcahy, Kenny Wenzel, Dave Jackson, Karen Woodhall, Jake Garrels, Chuck Vermette, Bethany and Jeff Lawson, Jon McAuliffe, Tara Ashok and The Mike Travers Band. Fred Meltzer will emcee the event. There will also be a 50/50 raffle along with the sale of NPFH merchandise. All donations benefit the annual NPFH High School Students Outstanding Citizenship Awards. Free beverages, cookies and munchies will be available. Wampanoag exhibit at Pilgrim Hall Museum PLYMOUTH – Wampanoag World: Patuxet to Plymouth is on display at Pilgrim Hall Museum, 75 Court St., illuminating the culture and lifeways of the Wampanoag people of Southeastern Massachusetts, including the significant contribution of Native women, as well as the continuing vitality of this Native community in the post-colonial age.  For information, call 508-746-1620 or visit www.pilgrimhallmuseum.org. The Museum is open from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. seven days a week every day February through December. Admission: adults $12; seniors (62+) $10; children $8; families (two adults, two children) $30. Residents of Plymouth are admitted free. Plymouth Tapestry project PLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Tapestry project at Pilgrim Hall Museum is a heroically scaled embroidered tapestry telling the story of Plymouth through handcrafted artistry. Pilgrim Hall Museum is creating this unique visual narrative in honor of Plymouth’s 400th anniversary.The tapestry – based on the famous Bayeux Tapestry – includes 20 six-foot long panels, with scenes of the experiences of the Mayflower Pilgrims and the Wampanoag people, and their Colonial encounter in Plymouth. The completed 120-foot long tapestry will be exhibited in its entirety on selected dates in 2020-2021. Learn more about this project at www.pilgrimhall.org. Alden House Mayflower Pilgrims exhibitDUXBURY — The Alden House Historic Site, 105 Alden St. in Duxbury, is displaying a new archaeology exhibit, “Small Things Remembered.” Attendees can explore the world of Mayflower Pilgrims John and Priscilla Alden and early Duxbury. The exhibit is sponsored by the Alden Kindred of America and Duxbury 2020.The exhibit showcases artifacts from John and Priscilla's first home in Duxbury excavated in the 1960s with recent research by the UMass Boston's Fiske Center for Archaeological Research. Curated by local historian Stephen O'Neill, the archaeology exhibit will continue through 2020.John and Priscilla Alden were Mayflower passengers and John signed the Mayflower Compact. Alden House Historic Site is part of the property given to the Aldens in 1627 and designated a National Historic Landmark in 2008 by the U.S. Department of the Interior.AKA and Duxbury 2020 are partnering to present the town's "Pilgrim Story" through several cultural events, tours, archaeology projects, exhibits and gallery talks to commemorate the upcoming 400th anniversary of the Mayflower Journey and Plymouth Settlement. The archaeology exhibit is sponsored by grants from Rockland Trust Charitable Foundation, Rockwell Foundation and Daughters of the American Revolution. For more information, call 781-934-9092 or visit http://alden.org. Indian Brook Elementary School celebrates Arbor DayPLYMOUTH — The Department of Public Works Forestry Division will celebrate Arbor Day with the fifth grade students, faculty and friends of Indian Brook Elementary School at 10:30 a.m. April 26 at the school, 1181 State Road.The celebration will consist of a tree planting, potting of seedlings and students giving the history of Arbor Day through art, song and stories. The seedlings are being funded for each fifth grade student in Plymouth’s school system by the Plymouth Bay Garden Club. Plymouth Public Library Arts FestivalPLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Public Library, 132 South St., will host its first Arts Festival from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 11 on the library lawn. The library is seeking artists for this event. The deadline to enter is May 31.The library will partner with the Plymouth Center for the Arts to produce this event. The Festival proceeds will be used to support the many cultural, artistic and educational programs offered by the Plymouth Public Library and the Plymouth Center for the Arts.The library is calling for 50 exhibitors to present their original and handcrafted canvas art, sculpture, woodwork, glass creations, fabric art, pottery, fashion, metalwork and more. Exhibitors that are selected will be supported with a marketing campaign consisting of print, electronic media and area business and arts groups involvement.Artists are invited to fill out applications that are available on the library website at http://plymouthpubliclibrary.org or by contacting Plymouth Public Library Arts Festival coordinator Bill Petrillo at bill.petrillo@comcast.net or 774-766-7689. Exhibitors will be notified of juried decisions by June 15. Also available to answer general questions is Anne Phelan, Plymouth Public Library Corporation CEO, at 508-830-4250, ext 216. An Acoustic Evening with John Hiatt PLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present An Acoustic Evening with John Hiatt at 8 p.m. April 27 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Tickets are $39-$79 and can be purchased at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 800-657-8774. Plymouth Center for the Arts PLYMOUTH — "Spring into Art” Member Show is open daily through April 27 at the Plymouth Center for the Arts, 11 North St.Plymouth Center for the Arts hours are from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Mondays through Saturdays and from noon to 4 p.m. Sundays. For more information, visit http://artsplymouth.org. American Legion Post 40 line dance lessonsPLYMOUTH — American Legion Post 40, 199 Federal Furnace Road, hosts line dance lessons at 7 p.m. Tuesday evenings. Classes will not be held on the last Tuesday of each month. Attendees will learn new line dances. Cost is $10 for the hour or longer. For information, email Maureen.Godding@yahoo.com. A Village to host Aging in Place informational meetingPLYMOUTH — A Village, a community based nonprofit organization which provides support services and programs that help members stay in their homes and connected with their community, will host a second informational meeting about the Age in Place Village movement in Plymouth at 6:30 p.m. April 30 at the Plymouth Public Library, 132 South St.Light refreshments will be served. Register by calling 617-688-6670 or email carol.roupenian@gmail.com. ‘PathFOUNDERS: Women of Plymouth’PLYMOUTH — Pilgrim Hall Museum, 75 Court St., has announced the opening of a new exhibition, “pathFOUNDERS: Women of Plymouth,” with a gala preview and cocktail reception from 6 to 8 p.m. May 2. The public is invited to attend.Resetting the 400-year story of Plymouth, “pathFOUNDERS” focuses on the lives and legacies of path-founding women. Survivors, visionaries, activists, and leaders they made history, though their stories are often untold.Who were the women who shaped Plymouth, and the world beyond? The Wampanoag women who were cultivators, culture bearers and clan leaders working to uphold a way of life threatened by incursion. The women of every era since in Plymouth's ongoing 400-year history who impacted family and community through their ideas, actions and example.Showcasing original artifacts from Pilgrim Hall Museum's collections not typically on view, as well as objects on loan and interactive multimedia displays, the exhibit highlights the experiences and contributions of Plymouth’s extraordinary women. Also on view will be “Women 100: A Digital Archive of Local Women's History, Activism, & Experience,” created by Pilgrim Hall to document a century of local women in honor of the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment granting American women the right to vote.The exhibition is sponsored by Tiny & Sons Auto Glass and will be on display through March 8, 2020. Reservations for the opening are requested; contact Erin Fein at 508-746-1620, ext. 7, or erin.fein@pilgrimhall.org. For more information on the “pathFOUNDERS” exhibition or to learn more about Pilgrim Hall Museum, visit http://pilgrimhallmuseum.org. Plymouth Schools special education evaluationIt is the responsibility of the Plymouth School Department to identify any child who is a resident of Plymouth who may have a disability, regardless of the severity of that disability. It is also the responsibility of the Plymouth public schools to evaluate those students to determine which are eligible for special education or related services under IDEA (Individuals with Disabilities Education Act) or 603 CMR 28 (Massachusetts Special Education Regulations). Plymouth's public schools are committed to locating those children before their third birthday in order to provide early intervention services for children 3 and 4 years old.If you have questions or concerns regarding your child’s development and would like to have your preschool child screened, call Denise Tobin, the principal of the Plymouth Early Childhood Center, at 508-830-4347 for an appointment. The Plymouth Early Childhood Center is located at 117 Long Pond Road. A list of schools by street assignment is available at https://www.plymouth.k12.ma.us/Page/1874.If your child is already enrolled in kindergarten through grade 12 and you or your pediatrician think your child should be evaluated to determine eligibility for special education services, you should make that request in writing to the principal of your child's school. Include your child’s name, address and date of birth, as well as the parent's name and telephone number and a brief description of your concerns. Plymouth 400 Inc. Postal Artwork ContestPLYMOUTH — Plymouth 400 Inc. has announced its Postal Artwork Contest, in which artists and aspiring artists alike will have the opportunity to develop official 2020 commemorative cachets. A cachet is "a design or inscription on an envelope to commemorate an historic event." In past commemorations, official cachets were created to represent key moments in history.Plymouth 400 Inc. and the Plymouth Rock Stamp Club partnered to run this Postal Artwork Contest. Participation is open to people of all ages and locations. To participate: go to https://plymouth400inc.org/Events/postal-artwork-contest?mc_cid=8059f34081&mc_eid=[UNIQID]; review the Contest Themes; review the Categories and Age/Experience Levels; review the Contest Entry Rules and complete a Contest Entry Form; design original artwork; and submit design and completed contest entry form electronically to ArtContest@Plymouth400inc.org.The deadline to submit artwork is Oct. 1. Artwork will be showcased at Illuminate Thanksgiving 2019. Rep. Kathy LaNatra district hours PLYMOUTH — State Rep. Kathy LaNatra, D-Kingston, will hold office hours throughout the 12th Plymouth District. Local hours are:9:30 to 11:30 a.m. the second Tuesday of each month at Plymouth Old Colony Elder Services, 204 South Meadow Road.9 a.m. to 11 a.m. the second Monday of each month at Kingston Council on Aging; 26 Evergreen St.LaNatra’s district includes all residents of Halifax, Kingston and Plympton, as well as residents of Precincts 1, 11 and 13 in Plymouth; Precinct 1 in Middleborough; and Precinct 1 in Duxbury. She will be available to all constituents to address their issues. Her office is best able to help on state-level issues such as unemployment insurance, health connector, environmental protection and conservation, and state licensing. She also welcomes thoughts on existing and pending policy that affect the communities of the 12th Plymouth district.All residents of the district are invited to stop by at any of these locations and times to have a conversation about issues and concerns that the office may be able to assist with. All of the host facilities are non-partisan and are not affiliated with a given political party.For additional information, contact Meghan Cleaves, Meghan.cleaves@MAhouse.gov. Meetings can also be arranged by appointment. Laurelwood hosts Dementia Education Support GroupPLYMOUTH — At 4 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month, Laurelwood at the Pinehills, 10 Golf Drive, will host a Dementia Education Support Group directed by Alison Stockman, LSW.Stockman is a member of the Massachusetts Alzheimer’s Association, a certified support group leader, and is OASIS certified. Attendees can take away tips in managing behavior and communication tactics as well as learn about resources available to persons and family members dealing with dementia. To RSVP or for more information, contact Debra Hyson or Brenda Gellar at 508-927-6346 or debra@laurelwoodatthepinehills.com. Priscilla Beach Theatre 2019 seasonPLYMOUTH — Priscilla Beach Theatre's 2019 season will feature six musical productions from May through October on its historic barn stage at 800 Rocky Hill Road.Season ticket subscriptions and individual show tickets are now on sale. The 2019 season includes Broadway musicals, as well as small cast productions, including the current London west end hit, “Heathers The Musical.”The Priscilla Beach Theatre 2019 season includes:Season subscriptions can be purchased online at http://pbtheatre.org or by calling 508-224-4888. Audience members can select to attend five shows, or all six, at a discounted rate. All seats are reserved, lost tickets will be replaced at no charge, and season tickets may be exchanged for free up to 48 hours prior to the performance based on availability. First SaturdayPLYMOUTH — First Saturday takes place in downtown Plymouth from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. the first Saturday each month. Businesses in downtown Plymouth (Court and Main streets and Main Street Extension) stay open a little later and offer special deals. Shop, dine, visit museums, listen to live music throughout the streets and grab a deal. Look for the First Saturday flag displayed outside of all participating merchants’ doors. Visit www.firstsaturdayplymouth.com or the Facebook page for a list of all participating merchants. Next event: May 4. Burial Hill Tours PLYMOUTH — Burial Hill Tours, presented by The Plymouth Antiquarian Society and Pilgrim Hall Museum, announced its 2019 schedule.Tours are held at 1 p.m. every first Saturday of the month and last approximately one hour. Participants may traverse steep and grassy slopes and encouraged to wear appropriate shoes. Tours begin at the top of the hill and are free and open to the public. Severe weather may cancel tour. The schedule is as follows:May 4: “Saving the Landscapes of the Past: Historic Preservation in Plymouth” with Anne MasonJune 1: “Final Resting Place: Pilgrim Graves on Burial Hill” with Stephen O’NeillJuly 6: “Mister Davis’s Neighborhood” with Donna CurtinAug. 3: “The Stonecarver’s Art” with Donna CurtinSept. 7: “A Blessing Great but Dangerous: Children in Early Plymouth” with Donna CurtinOct. 5: “Finding Early Plymouth: An Archaeological View of Burial Hill” with David LandonNov. 2: “Unruly Women” with Donna Curtin and Anne MasonDec. 7: “Veterans on Burial Hill” with Anne Mason Poetry: The Art of WordsPLYMOUTH – Poetry: The Art of Words, the Mike Amado Memorial Series, is being held at the Plymouth Public Library, 132 South St. Admission and refreshments are free. For details, visit ptaow.com. Doors open at 12:30 p.m.May 5: Nancy Brady Cunningham and Chad ParenteauJune 2: Robert Knox and Joanna Zarkadas Southside Johnny & The Asbury Jukes to performPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present Southside Johnny & The Asbury Jukes at 7:30 p.m. May 9 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Tickets are $39-$69 and can be bought at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 1-800-514-3849. Melissa Etheridge to perform at Memorial HallPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present Melissa Etheridge’s “The Medicine Show” at 8 p.m. May 11 at Plymouth Memorial Hall. Tickets are $49-$129 and can be bought at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 1-800-514-3849. No Place for Hate Committee ‘Building Safer Communities’ PLYMOUTH — No Place for Hate Committee will host “Building Safer Communities,” a presentation sponsored by the committee, in association with Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, from 7 to 9 p.m. May 14 at Plymouth Public Library, 132 South St.Greater Boston PFLAG will offer a community presentation about LGBTQ+ issues and identities. The group will discuss why LGBTQ issues need to be addressed in public spaces, the language around gender and sexuality, and how to make spaces safer. There will be a Q&A.This program is being offered in response to the same program that was given at Plymouth South Middle School in January, especially for the parents who expressed interest in knowing about its content. The Phil presents ‘Music of the Knights’PLYMOUTH — The finale to Steven Karidoyanes’ 25th season leading the Plymouth Philharmonic Orchestra, “Music of the Knights,” is a celebration of three living songwriters. The Phil will present two performances of the program featuring the songs of Sir Paul McCartney, Sir Elton John and Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber at 7:30 p.m. May 18 and 3 p.m. May 19 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Karidoyanes and the orchestra will be joined by Broadway guest vocalists Scott Coulter, Lorinda Lisitza, Kelli Rabke and pianist/vocalist John Boswell for each of these performances.Prior to the Saturday evening concert, the audience is invited to attend the Phil’s season finale cocktail party from 6 to 7:30 p.m. upstairs in the Blue Room at Memorial Hall featuring hors d’oeuvres and a cash bar. Tickets to the pre-concert cocktail party are $20 each and can be purchased by calling the office.Individual ticket prices to “Music of the Knights” are $20, $45, $55, $75. Senior, youth and group discounts are offered. Call the Phil office for details. Rush tickets for $10 will be sold at the door one hour before performance, as available. Advance tickets can be purchased online by visiting http://plymouthphil.org or calling the Phil office at 508-746-8008. Duxbury Senior Center Booked for Lunch seriesDUXBURY — The Booked for Lunch series at the Duxbury Senior Center, 10 Mayflower St., continues with each event being held from noon to 2 p.m. The Duxbury Senior Center, the Duxbury Free Library and Westwinds Bookshop have teamed up to bring this literary series, which features events with a food and luncheon paring catered by Mix it Up Kitchen.Scheduled authors include Randy Susan Meyers, “Waisted,” May 28.Lunch costs $10 and the literary events are always free. Call 781-934-5774, ext. 5716, or stop by the Senior Center to register. Blue Oyster Cult performing at Memorial HallPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present Blue Oyster Cult at 7:30 p.m. June 6 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Tickets are $39-$79 and can be purchased at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 800-514-3849. Relay For Life PLYMOUTH — The 2019 Relay For Life of Plymouth County will be held from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. June 22 at Plymouth Municipal Airport on South Meadow Road in Plymouth. The annual event will include opening and closing ceremonies, survivor and caregiver walk an dinner, and a luminaria ceremony. It also features food, music, entertainment, drawings and many more activities for walkers, survivors, caregivers and visitors. The public is welcome.Walkers, teams and volunteers are needed to participate and assist with this year’s Relay For Life of Plymouth County. For more information, contact Lisa Jensen, event and sponsorship lead, at lmjensen2762@aol.com or 781-831-4937; or Susie Frost, community development manager for the American Cancer Society, at susie.frost@cancer.org. To learn more about this community event, visit http://relayforlife.org/plymouthcountyMA. The Wallflowers to play Memorial HallPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present The Wallflowers at 7:30 p.m. July 18 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Tickets for The Wallflowers are $39-$79 and can be bought at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 800-657- 8774. Russian band Leonid & Friends to performPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present Leonid & Friends, Russia’s Chicago tribute band, at 8 p.m. Aug. 3 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. Tickets are $29-$49 and can be bought at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 800-657- 8774. Fine Arts Festival PLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Public Library Corporation will hold its inaugural juried Fine Arts Festival from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Aug. 11 on the Plymouth Public Library lawn, 132 South St.The festival proceeds will be used to support the many cultural, artistic and educational programs. Approximately  50 exhibitors will present their original and handcrafted canvas art, sculpture, woodwork, glass creations, fabric art, pottery, fashion, metalwork and more. Exhibitors that are selected will be supported with a marketing campaign consisting of print, electronic media and area business and arts groups involvement.For information: http://plymouthpubliclibrary.org or contact Plymouth Public Library Arts Festival coordinator Bill Petrillo at bill.petrillo@comcast.net or 774-766-7689.Exhibitors will be notified of juried decisions by April 15. Also available to answer general questions is Anne Phelan, Plymouth Public Library Corporation CEO, at 508-830-4250, ext 216. The Plymouth Public Library is fully accessible, including lawn access. Brown Box Theatre Project presents Shakespeare outdoors PLYMOUTH — Brown Box Theatre Project announced its ninth consecutive year of free outdoor Shakespeare with “Measure for Measure” at 7:30 p.m. Aug. 18 at Pilgrim Memorial State Park. Brown Box, under the direction of executive artistic director and co-founder Kyler Taustin, will present the production as part of a seven-week tour to 27 outdoor venues in 35 communities.All performances are free, outdoors, and open to all audiences; no tickets are needed. Lawn seating, blankets and lawn chairs welcome. Visit http://brownboxtheatre.org for full performance schedule and rain locations. Due to mature themes this show is recommended for ages 13 and older with the advisory of a parent. Red Hot Chilli Pipers at Memorial HallPLYMOUTH — Spectacle Management will present the Red Hot Chilli Pipers at 7 p.m. March 15 at Plymouth Memorial Hall, 83 Court St. The Red Hot Chilli Pipers, not to be confused with Peppers, is a nine-piece ensemble consisting of pipers, guitarists, keyboards and drummers. Tickets are $29-$49 and can be bought at http://memorialhall.com or by calling 800-657-8774. Plymouth Area Coalition Thrift ShopKINGSTON — The Plymouth Area Coalition Thrift Shop is located at 149 Bishops Highway.Shop hours are from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Thursdays and Fridays. The Coalition Thrift Shop offers quality, gently used clothing, household items and furniture at affordable prices. The Shop also includes a Boutique which offers brand new clothing. All proceeds from sales at the Thrift Shop benefit Plymouth Area Coalition for the Homeless programs and clients.Donations to the Thrift Shop may be dropped off at the shop from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mondays through Thursdays. For further information, call 781-582-2010, email info@plymouthareacoalition.org or visit http://plymouthareacoalition.org. Plymouth Area Coalition Food PantryKINGSTON — The Plymouth Area Coalition Food Pantry is located at 149 Bishops Highway. The Food Pantry offers fresh fruits and vegetables, meat and nonperishable groceries. The Coalition Food Pantry is open from 5 to 7 p.m. Wednesdays and from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Thursdays. For further information, call 781-582-2010. Project Outreach Program PLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Police Department presents Project Outreach’s community drop-in centers from 5 to 9 p.m., usually the second and fourth Tuesdays each month, at New Hope Chapel in Plymouth. The drop-in centers are designed to address ongoing battles with opioid substance abuse.Also present will be representatives and coaches from these agencies to provide guidance and counseling to those inflicted with opioid and other addiction problems and their families. Anyone who has a family member who suffers from, or they suspect may have an addiction problem, is invited to drop in. For information: 508-830-4218, ext. 440. Transfer station recycling PLYMOUTH – Due to changes in the recyclables market the town requires glass to be separated from the commingled (tin, plastic, steel and aluminum) material taken to the Manomet Transfer Station. A separate container for glass will be available. A message board has been placed at the transfer station alerting residents of this change. For more information, contact the Department of Public Works at 508-830-4162, ext. 100. Chrissy's CharityPLYMOUTH — Chrissy’s Charity is continuing to take donated rosaries, even broken, and two-ply yarn. The organization is always in need to send rosaries to missions and also give them to the local hospital or anyone in need.The ladies in the Prayer Shawl Group make prayer shawls and prayer lap blankets for those in need. The group prays every day for those who receive these items and also for those who receive Prayer Bracelets. Drop off donations at both Rockland Trust Banks in Plymouth, on Pilgrim Hill Road and Court Street, and also at St. Mary's church rectory. For information, call Jane at 508-746-6095 or email gingerw2@comcast.net. Plymouth Bay Cultural District seeks supportPLYMOUTH — As an all-volunteer committee, the Plymouth Bay Cultural District has planned many initiatives to deliver more great programs and events to the region. The Cultural District is asking for donations to help the cause. Visit the Go Fund Me page at https://gofundme.com/plymouth-bay-cultural-district. Plymouth Fragment SocietyPLYMOUTH – Do you need help with rent, utility bills or other basic needs? The Plymouth Fragment Society offers assistance to Plymouth residents. To join or make a donation or for an application, mail to P.O. Box 6386, Plymouth, MA 02362 or visit the site at plymouthfragmentsociety.org or send email to plymouthfragmentsociety@gmail.com. The Plymouth Fragment Society relies solely on donations. Requests are reviewed and filled based on available funds Pet food pantryPLYMOUTH – The Plymouth Salvation Army offers a pet food pantry for cats and dogs from 9 a.m. to noon the second Wednesday of the month at 8 Carver St. The pantry is sponsored by the Plymouth VCA and Hills Pet Nutrition. A veterinarian and vet tech will be onsite that morning to answer questions about pet health. Call the Salvation Army at 508-746-1559 with questions. PACTVPLYMOUTH – Plymouth Area Community Television is a nonprofit organization serving the towns of Duxbury, Kingston, Pembroke and Plymouth. The studio is located at 4 Collins Ave., Plymouth. Call PACTV at 508-830-6999 or visit www.pactv.org for more information. ‘State Matters’ PLYMOUTH — “State Matters" is a PACTV show hosted by state Rep. Matt Muratore. The show can be seen at the following times on the local government channel: at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and 6 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in Plymouth on Comcast 15 and Verizon 47. The episode is also available on PACTV’s YouTube Channel, PACTV Video Share at https://youtu.be/cwYGm0kJghU. For more information about PACTV or State Matters, visit http://pactv.org/watch. PACTV video production classesPLYMOUTH — Plymouth Area Community Television will offer free basic video production classes to its members. Attendees can choose from Introduction to Camcorder, Talk Show classes, Cooking show classes, Basic Studio classes and Editing Series using Adobe Premiere Pro.Membership rates are $30 for an individual member or $15 for members younger than 18 or older than 62. Once the class is completed, students can can borrow the equipment or reserve the studios for free to create a video or show for the Community Channel that is seen in Duxbury, Kingston, Pembroke and Plymouth on Comcast Channel 13 and Verizon Channel 43. Sign up at http://pactv.org/classes. For information, contact Kim Miot, director of community media, at kim@pactv.org, or call 508-830-6999. 'Breaking the Cycle’ PLYMOUTH — "Breaking the Cycle" is an ongoing series and will feature new episodes each month discussing the drug and opioid epidemic affecting Plymouth and the commonwealth. The show will also provide information about the Plymouth County Drug Abuse Task Force and the steps being taking with local and state law enforcement to address this issue."Breaking the Cycle" can be seen on PACTV's government channels and PACTV's YouTube Channel at youtu.be/uodCMwW7O98 and PACTV Video Share at youtube.com/user/pactvvideoshare.The show will air at the following times and dates: 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and 11 a.m. Saturdays and Sundays on Duxbury Government Access Channels Comcast 15/Verizon 39, Kingston Education/Government Access Channels Comcast 14/Verizon 41, Pembroke Government Access Channel Comcast 15 and Plymouth Government Access Channels Comcast 15/Verizon 47; 3 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays on Duxbury Government Access Channels Comcast 15/Verizon 39, Pembroke Government Access Channel Comcast 15 and Plymouth Government Access Channels Comcast 15/Verizon 47. ‘Register’s Report’PLYMOUTH — “Register’s Report” is playing now on PACTV’s Government Channels on the following days and times:11 a.m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and 5 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays on Duxbury: Comcast 15 & Verizon 39; 11 a.m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and 6 p.m. Thursdays on Kingston: Comcast 14 & Verizon 41; 11 a.m. Mondays Wednesdays & Fridays and 5 p.m. Thursdays on Pembroke: Comcast 15; 11 a.m. Mondays Wednesdays & Fridays and 2:30 p.m. Mondays and Fridays.The episode is also available on PACTV’s YouTube Channel, PACTV Video Share: https://youtu.be/SK1orGM2Oa4.PACTV is a nonprofit organization providing Public, Educational and Government Access. Now in its 20th year, PACTV serves the towns of Duxbury, Kingston, Pembroke and Plymouth. For more information about PACTV, visit http://pactv.org. 'PCN Life'PLYMOUTH — Plymouth Area Community Television's “PCN Life" plays at 8:30 p.m. Thursdays. The show follows PACTV’s weekly news show, “PACTV Community News,” each week. The show will feature the lighter side of the South Shore, resident profiles, local musicians, area restaurants, events, health and wellness and more. The show can be seen on the Community Channel, Comcast channel 13 and Verizon channel 43. Episodes will also be shared on the PCN YouTube channel. For more information about PACTV Community News or to submit a story idea, contact Miot at kim@pactv.org or pactv.org. ‘Building Community’PLYMOUTH – “Building Community,” a talk show and service project produced by PACTV, is now running on the public access channel. PACTV’s Donna Rodriguez is the host. The show focuses on the building blocks of vibrant, nurturing, healthy communities and how to access tools to improve the quality of the lives of everyone in the community. The show can be seen on PACTV’s public access channel (Comcast 13 and Verizon 43) at 7 p.m. Wednesdays, at 1 p.m. Thursdays, at 11 a.m. Fridays and at 11:30 a.m. Saturdays. For more information, email buildingcommunity@pactv.org or visit www.pactv.org. ‘Talk of the Towne’PLYMOUTH – The live PACTV call-in show, “Talk of the Towne,” is cablecast Wednesdays at 8 p.m. on channels 13 (for Comcast customers) and 43 (for Verizon subscribers). Visit www.pactv.org for details or call 508-830-6999. Karen Buechs hosts the show unless otherwise noted. 'PACTV Community News'PLYMOUTH – "PACTV Community News,” on channels 13 (Comcast) and 43 (Verizon), features local news stories from Plymouth, Duxbury, Kingston and Pembroke. The show is cablecast at 8 p.m. Thursday, 1 p.m. Friday, 10:30 a.m. Saturday and 3 p.m. Monday. To submit a story suggestion, call Kim Miot, PCN news director, at 508-830-6999 or email kim@pactv.org. To watch previous episodes or to find out more about PCN, visit www.pactv.org/pcn. ‘Delicious and Nutritious’PLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Center for Active Living has partnered with chef Jerry Levine, Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital-Plymouth and PACTV to bring viewers a new show called “Delicious and Nutritious.” The show features simple, healthy meals. Levine and BID-Plymouth dietitian Marcia Richards work together and provide nutrition tips for seniors.The show can be seen on Plymouth’s Government Channels Comcast 15/Verizon 47 at 8 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays. The episode is also available on PACTV’s YouTube Channel, PACTV Video Share: https://youtu.be/N_B9uJQhUxo. For more information about PACTV, visit http://pactv.org. South Shore LocavoresKINGSTON – The South Shore Locavores series is a collaboration between the Kingston Public Library and edible South Shore & South Coast magazine. This year, the series is hosted by the Kingston Council on Aging and the Kingston Public Library Foundation as part of a new collaboration. See the list of Locavores programs for this season on the edible South Shore & South Coast website. Topics and location may occasionally be changed.The library compiles themed resource lists for each Locavores session, and there are always door prizes. Attendees are invited to take a dish to share. There will be time at the break and end of the meeting for munching and mingling. To help fight hunger on the South Shore, there is a collection box for nonperishable foods at each gathering for donation to the Greater Plymouth Food Distribution Center. A donation up to $10 will be welcome to help cover expenses. For upcoming meeting dates and information, see ediblesouthshore.com or www.kingstonpubliclibrary.org. Toastmasters ClubKINGSTON – South Shore Soliloquy Toastmasters Club in Kingston is a public speaking club that meets from 7:30 to 9 p.m. the second and fourth Tuesday of each month at the Kingston Library, located at 6 Green St., to enhance participants’ speaking and leadership capabilities. Become a better, more confident speaker, presenter and interviewee. Attend a meeting to observe or participate and learn how you can build your communication skills to effectively express yourself in any situation. For more information, call Barbara Augello at 781-582-1440. Pesticide exclusion regulationsPLYMOUTH — Plymouth County Mosquito Control Project is providing the following state regulations to any individuals who wish to have their property legally excluded from pesticide applications used in mosquito control. The Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources regulations specify the following:Such application is made by a person living on, or legally in control of said property.The application must be sent in the form of a certified letter to the municipal clerk’s office by March 1, annually. The letter must include the name, address and telephone number of the person making the request. The letter must include the address of the property to be excluded. The letter should include a description of the types of pesticide application programs for which exclusion is requested.For more information, go to plymouthmosquito.org and select No Spray from the menu list. Heidrea for Heroes' Incline CorpsPLYMOUTH — Heidrea for Heroes has launched Incline Corps, a monthly fitness program for veterans, at Live Life Believe Fitness Center, 10 Cordage Park Circle, Plymouth. This free program features a group workout and a social hour afterward with food and drinks from 7:15 to 8 p.m. J.C. Jasa, a certified fitness trainer, MMA fighting coach and Marine Corps veteran, will lead a workout that combines strength, conditioning, plyometrics and some elements of boxing mixed in. All fitness levels are welcome, and the workout will be modified to suit individuals. Drop-ins are welcome, but advanced sign-ups are appreciated. For information: 774-773-3951; info@heidrea4heroes.org; heidrea4heroes.org. Cranberry Hospice in Plymouth seeks volunteersPLYMOUTH — Cranberry Hospice & Palliative Care in Plymouth is seeking volunteers to provide companionship and support to patients and their families, vigil visits at the time of death and to help with day-to-day activities such as running errands and providing local transportation. Also, some volunteers may help with clerical tasks or fundraising activities in the Hospice office. In addition, Cranberry Hospice & Palliative Care is also seeking veteran volunteers to support the Veteran’s Program, which places a veteran volunteer with veteran patients, and volunteers for the Pediatric Palliative Care Program “Fragile Footprints.”The Cranberry Hospice team and families rely on the dedication and commitment of its volunteers to provide the extra care and open hearts that they bring with them on each visit and every phone call. Cranberry Hospice provides training.Training takes place at Cranberry Hospice & Palliative Care, 36 Cordage Park Circle, Plymouth. Interested residents should contact Karen Foster, volunteer coordinator,  at 508-210-5956, or complete an application and to make an appointment for an interview prior to the start of the training. Women’s Auxiliary seeks volunteersPLYMOUTH — The Salvation Army Women’s Auxiliary of Plymouth is looking for new members to join its volunteer team. The Women’s Auxiliary helps with The Salvation Army’s Christmas Assistance and currently hosts two annual luncheons. Interested residents should call Lt. Melanie Moore at 508-746-1559. VNA Care seeks hospice volunteersPLYMOUTH — VNA Care, a nonprofit home health and hospice organization, is seeking volunteers to provide companionship patients and respite time for family members. A strong need exists for volunteers who are available during the day, are bilingual, or can provide pet or music therapy. No previous experience is necessary. VNA Hospice Care provides training and ongoing support to all volunteers. Interested residents should call 781-569-2811 or visit vnacare.org. First Baptist Church sock drivePLYMOUTH — The First Baptist Church of Plymouth, 41 Westerly Road, offers an outreach for the homeless population of the community called the "Sock It to Me" Drive. New, white athletic socks will be collected to distribute to the homeless once a month during the Hairs to You Project, when free haircuts are provided.Local churches and businesses will be contacted to request assistance in placing the collection boxes at their location. To donate socks or money towards the drive, call 781-336-6737; checks may be made payable to FBC Sock It to Me Fund. Plymouth Salvation Army PLYMOUTH — The Plymouth Salvation Army, 52 Long Pond Road, hosts Celebrate Recovery 1 p.m. Thursdays following lunch. Plymouth Farmers’ Market outdoorsPLYMOUTH –  The summer Plymouth Farmers’ Market takes place rain or shine from 2:30 to 6:30 p.m. every Thursday from June through October at Plimoth Plantation, located at 137 Warren Ave., off Exit 4 South in Plymouth.Managed by farmer Dave Purpura, proprietor of Plato’s Harvest Organic Farm, the Market features organic produce, seafood, pork, beef, chicken, goat and handmade cheese, along with prepared-food vendors and crafters. You’ll hear live music, and kids activities enhance the experience with Miss Margaret from Plymouth Public Library hosting Plymouth Story Time at 4 p.m. The Market also features face painting, balloon animals and temporary tattoos for kids. Massage therapists perform chair massage and local cooks offer insight into meal preparation. The Market accepts WIC EBT cards, SNAP benefits and food stamps. For more information visit plymouthfarmersmarket.org. Christ Church Thrift Shoppe senior salePLYMOUTH — Christ Church Thrift Shoppe, 6 Lothrop St., will host a sale for seniors on the third Friday of each month. Mature shoppers will receive a 50 percent discount on all purchases.The thrift shop carries a mix of gently used clothing for women and men; household goods; small furniture; accessories; artwork; and jewelry. Proceeds benefit the ministries of Christ Church and the needs of the Greater Plymouth community. Donations are welcome when Christ Church Thrift Shoppe is open. For details, call 508-746-4990.Christ Church Thrift Shoppe is open from 1 to 4 p.m. Wednesdays; 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Thursdays and Fridays; and from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturdays. For more information, contact Christ Church Parish: 508-746-4959; office.christchurchplymouth@gmail.com; christchurch-plymouth.org. Hairs to YouPLYMOUTH — The Hairs to You Project is a "mission of love from the heart" and was started in 2016 to provide haircuts to the homeless men and women of Plymouth. The haircuts are given by local hair stylists who volunteer their time once a month in Plymouth. For the time being, the haircuts will be at St. Peter's Parish Hall, 10 Memorial Drive, during the Sunday lunch program.The program is seeking licensed hair stylists that are available from 11 a.m. to noon Saturdays every other month at St. Mary's.For information, call Jeanne Hunter McCartin at 781-336-6737 or email huntermccartin@yahoo.com.© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse NewsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							The Wellesley Townsman  ~ 1 Speen St., Framingham, MA 01701 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service