Like the woman above, Nafeesah Goldsmith was also subjected to solitary confinement in New Jersey. Goldsmith was there for 60 days. "They watched me through glass, standing naked in my cell, and they shouted out commands to me like I was a caged animal." She's fighting to get the solitary confinement act passed and signed by the governor.By Star-Ledger Guest Columnist Note: This is one of a series of stories about solitary confinement. Here’s an overall look at the issue: Torture does happen in N.J.'s prison, former inmates say. By Nafeesah GoldsmithIn 2006, when I was 26 years old, I was placed in solitary confinement at New Jersey State Prison for 60 days.I was locked in my cell for 23 hours a day, sometimes 24 hours, depending on the mood of the officers or if there was a lockdown at the prison. Our showers -- which we were supposed to receive every day -- were subject to the officers’ whims as well. Sometimes, I didn’t get a shower for days.Solitary confinement is cruel, but for women, it is especially dehumanizing. There were times I didn’t have any sanitary napkins in my cell when I got my period. Some officers would tell me and other women when we asked for sanitary napkins: “Use a sock or use toilet paper.”To survive the days, I slept, I read, I wrote letters.The other women and I tried to form connections and communicate with each other, even though we were kept apart. We played “Hangman” through steel doors. We played “In the mix.” Someone would sing a song and they’d sing it up until a certain point and then say, “In the mix.” And so then the next person would pick up where they left off. We would do that for hours.We tried anything just to keep ourselves from going crazy.Every other day we had recreation time, known as “Rec,” which was our only chance to be outside. But to go out to Rec, I was required to strip in my cell. I had to pass my clothes through the slot to the officers. They watched me through glass, standing naked in my cell, and they shouted out commands to me like I was a caged animal.“Raise your feet. Squat and cough. Lift your breasts, and open your mouth.”All to go outside and stand in a cage for about 45 minutes. Even recreation, the long-awaited moment of feeling human, was infused with abuse and humiliation.Solitary confinement is diabolical. It is like being an animal in a cage. There's no fancy way to paint the picture.I am a survivor of solitary confinement. By using the term survivor, it draws light on the harsh experience of literally being locked in a cage. It shows the individual -- not inmate -- as a human being. It is important that when we talk about solitary confinement we make it clear as to why we are survivors because we are.I ask you to join with survivors like myself and speak up to make sure A314 becomes law.Nafeesah Goldsmith was 26 years old when she was placed in solitary confinement for 60 days at New Jersey State Prison. After serving nearly 13 years for first-degree robbery and kidnapping, she is now pursuing a master’s degree at Monmouth University. She is also an organizer with Industrial Areas Foundation.Bookmark NJ.com/Opinion. Follow us on Twitter @NJ_Opinion and on Facebook at NJ.com Opinion. Get the latest news updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2019 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.   Ad Choices  