We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.First it was a brewery, then a war-time labor camp, then an East German political prison. Now it can be yours. The town of Gera is selling its decommissioned gaol to anyone with a good idea of what to do with it.A former prison is being offered for sale in the German state of Thuringia, with a reported price tag of €298,000 ($336,000).Up for grabs is the town of Gera's old prison, including 6-meter (20 feet) prison walls, prison house, gate house and parking spaces. The total area is about 7,500 square meters.The facility was run as a prison between 1946 and 2017 and was originally built on the site of a former brewery.Read more: Deportation plan threatens to strain Germany's overcrowded prisonsLocal media reported the prison was closed prematurely, as its replacement in Zwickau is not due to open until 2023. The last 30 prisoners were moved to detention centers in the towns of Hohenleuben and Suhl-Goldlauter.Prospective buyers will have to outline a use case before they can purchase."Basically, every viable offer from a solvent and reputable bidder with a sustainable use of the property would be in the interest of the state," the state of Thuringia told the regional Ostthüringer Zeitung.According to the information memorandum, the facility is in walking distance of the town of Gera, which has a population of 100,000.Read more: German prisoners find their inner ZenHoused political prisonersThe building was constructed at the end of the 1890s as the malthouse for the former brewery in Gera, and in the early 1940s was converted into accommodation for forced laborers. From 1945 the building was used as a correctional facility.About 3,000 forced laborers were put to work in the city's weapons factories.After the war, Soviet occupiers turned the facility into a women's prison, but later held male political prisoners when the Stasi took over.It eventually became a normal prison and at the time of its closure, it had capacity for 149 inmates.The five-level building includes a workshop, kitchen facilities, a laundry, workshops, cells, offices, visitor rooms and more.According to the book Prison Break — True Stories of the World's Greatest Escapes, Gera once housed escape artist Karl Schaarschmidt, who escaped his specially reinforced cell by gnawing his way through the window bars. Other incidents, a prison-guard-turned-historian told the Ostthüringer Zeitung, included two prisoners escaping by overpowering guards in 1980 before being quickly captured, prisoners carving a 50 cm hole in the exterior wall in 2007, and a prisoner escaping to the roof in 2015.Researchers have urged authorities to rethink who ends up in prison in a bid to lessen the burden on the prison system. But instead of exploring alternatives, German states have vowed to create space for more prisoners. (27.04.2018)
  The use of the Internet in German prisons is highly controversial. But new technology is making it possible to better control access to the Web. Still, the Internet can be abused in prisons. (23.07.2013)
  Feelings of guilt and hopelessness can put extreme pressure on prisoners. In one German prison, inmates are discovering a new sense of calm with regular meditation that also prepares them for life on the outside. (01.05.2013)
  A new prison in Berlin has triggered a debate in Germany on the country's penal system. Media describe the new jail as 'five-star slammer.' But what kind of standards and conditions are there in German prisons? (21.03.2013)
  Germany's prisons already struggle with overcrowding and violence. Under a new proposal, they are also set to house asylum-seekers obliged to leave the country. Is the penitentiary system becoming a political plaything? (10.02.2019)
  Expose für die landeseigene Liegenschaft in 07545 Gera, Greizer Straße 70
Kaufangebote für ehemaliges Gefängnis Gera ab Sonnabend möglich
The Interior Ministry says buildings, homes and venues across the country are being used by neo-Nazis and other far-right extremists. The Left party has warned that some of these places amount to a neo-Nazi "theme park." A German court has sentenced a man to life in prison for sexually abusing and murdering a 10-year-old girl in 1991. He was found guilty of throwing the girl to her death from a highway bridge. The ex-informant, currently in jail for sexually abusing minors, will face trial for fraud in early April. Brandt was a key figure in the German neo-Nazi scene and linked to a series of racially motivated murders. DW News presents the most important news — in brief, quickly and up-to-date.
  
© 2019 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
