Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 15, 2019 2:23 PM EDT Filed Under:BARRIE — A heartbreaking video shows the tiny baby, distressed and miserable, as she lay helplessly twitching and jerking in her mother’s arms.The four-week old cries out in pain with each spasm while her mother softly coos, “Shhhh, baby it’s OK.”But it was not OK. The child was dying.After being violently shaken, her tiny brain was torn and bleeding. The twitching due to terrible seizures. The high-pitched crying each time she jerked was from the pain of the swelling in her neck muscles and ligaments and hemorrhaging along her spinal cord.The tot suffered permanent, traumatic brain injury and is now paralyzed and blind.Her 22-year-old father is accused of shaking the baby with such force while caring for her on Dec. 26, 2016 that he caused her brain to slam against the skull.The Orillia man pleaded not guilty to aggravated assault and failing to provide the necessities of life.During the trial that unfolded in a Barrie court this week, the room went silent as the troubling video was played.On the witness stand, the girl’s teenaged mom, now 20, broke down weeping as she watched her baby, swaddled in a pink flowered sleeper, helplessly and pitifully crying.Just two days earlier, everything was fine, she testified. It was Christmas, presents were opened and family members passed around the little bundle of joy at her boyfriend’s mother’s home.“She was her typical snuggly self,” the mom testified of her “princess.”For some reason, the mom became upset, had one of her not uncommon “panic attacks,” and left, leaving the dad in a lurch to take care of their baby. The next night, Boxing Day, she went out drinking with a girlfriend.The mom had her emotional “challenges” and was overwhelmed with being a teen mom, court heard.“The best thing about being a parent is you’re a walking, broke, zombie,” she texted the dad.He texted back, “You just had two nights off,” and complained “I got no sleep I’m tired as f***.”On Dec. 27, 2016, he brought the baby back to the mom’s apartment, then sat down to play video games. The mom noticed the baby was pale and cold and her breathing was shallow.“I picked her up and she started screaming and twitching,” she recalled.Worried, she got her mother to take a video with her cellphone so she could show the doctor. Her mother told her everything would be OK.So, she packed the baby in her car seat and went off to Walmart for some “retail therapy.” Her friend noticed the baby twitching and insisted something was very wrong, so the young mom called Telehealth Ontario.“Next thing I knew I was surrounded by 10 paramedics,” she testified.The baby was rushed to Sick Kids hospital where tubes were inserted into every orifice — breathing tubes, intravenous tubes, feeding tubes, catheter tubes. A dozen medications were administered to stop the seizures, but still they continued for days.Dr. Michelle Shouldice, pediatrician and president of Child and Youth Maltreatment at Sick Kids, testified the baby was close to death, with extensive bleeding around the brain, brain lesions and severe hemorrhaging behind her eyes and spinal cord.Shouldice testified such critical injuries were not from an accident — this baby was “violently” shaken and possibly also suffered blows to the head.“Nothing else would explain those injuries,” Shouldice testified.There is no question in this trial that the baby was assaulted — the question is by whom.The Crown contends the dad was the only person alone with the baby before the symptoms began. But Mike Flossman is not suggesting he is some devious, baby-beating criminal.“This is not someone who is malicious or vindictive,” Flossman said. “This was an overwhelmed, inexperienced father — a young man who was in over his head. He was left in a lurch. He was at his wit’s end — and he lost it.”It’s a tragedy born of “children, having children,” Flossman added.Defence lawyer Charles Manners suggested it could have been the mother who hurt her baby — she was equally overwhelmed with parenthood.Justice Joseph Di Luca is expected to deliver his verdict later this month.SHAKEN BABY SYNDROME SEVERELY UNDER REPORTEDAccording to the Public Health Agency of Canada, shaken baby injuries may be severely underestimated and under reported.In less severe cases, babies who look normal after the shaking might eventually develop behavioral or learning problems. Sometimes the problem isn’t noticed until the child enters the school system.Shaken baby syndrome, also referred to as abusive head trauma, is a form of child abuse that occurs when a baby is violently shaken causing its head to whip backward and forward.The violent shaking, sometimes accompanied by blows to the head from a wall or crib mattress, pitches the baby’s brain back and forth causing it to smash against the skull, which can bruise and tear the brain and spinal cord and cause hemorrhaging to the retinas.It most often happens when the infant’s demands, especially relentless crying, becomes a trigger for a frustrated and overwhelmed parent or caregiver.About one in every four cases results in the baby’s death. Children who survive may suffer blindness, seizures, paralysis and severe mental retardation.The Public Health Agency of Canada reports there were 220 confirmed cases across Canada between 2005 and 2008.We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN