Published: April 13, 2019 Updated: April 13, 2019 5:01 PM EDT Filed Under:Hands up if you took Nikita Kucherov in your playoff pool.How about Steven Stamkos? Brayden Point? Victor Hedman and Andrei Vasilevskiy? Did you load up with nothing but Tampa Bay players?Yeah, you’re probably sweating today. And you’re not alone.Before the playoffs began, 19 of Postmedia’s 23 hockey writers picked the Lightning to win the Stanley Cup. Three others had them losing in the final.They were the safe pick. Forget about the Presidents’ Trophy curse or the fact that the team had faced little to no adversity during the regular season. The Lightning, who became only the third team in the history of the NHL to win 60 games, were supposed to be above all that.They had a winger in Kucherov who led the league with 128 points and two others — Stamkos and Point — who finished with 98 points and 92 points, respectively. They had a Norris Trophy-winning defenceman (Hedman) and a goalie (Vasilevskiy) who won 75% of his games with a .925 save percentage. Heck, they even had a third line that combined for 50 goals and 126 points, as well as a backup goalie who went 21-5-0.They were no holes in their line-up. No concerns. They were the NHL’s version of the Golden State Warriors.Given the choice between picking Tampa Bay or the field, the smart money was on the Lightning. They were built to go all the way. At the very least, they were supposed to get past the Columbus Blue Jackets.Most predicted it would be a first-round sweep. Well, that prediction isn’t totally wrong today. But instead of Tampa Bay rolling past Columbus, it’s the eighth-seeded Blue Jackets that surprisingly have the No. 1-ranked Lightning on the ropes after stealing Games 1 and 2 on the road to take 2-0 series lead.How in the name of Bill Buckner and Scott Norwood is this happening?Sure, it’s the Stanley Cup playoffs. Upsets happen. But not like this.“This is a five-alarm fire,” head coach Jon Cooper told reporters after Friday’s stunning 5-1 loss in Tampa Bay. “We had a wonderful regular season statistic-wise — our wins, both our special teams finished first — but the regular season is different than playoffs. Things just happen so fast … all of a sudden you’re down 0-2 at home and alarms are going off.”It’s surprising. But it shouldn’t be totally unexpected. After all, four Presidents’ Trophy winners failed to get out of the first round in the past 13 years. Four others lost in the second round. In 2012, the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Kings upset the Presidents’ Trophy-winning Vancouver Canucks 4-1 in the first round, and then went on to win the Cup.So it doesn’t really matter that the Lightning outscored the Blue Jackets 17-3 in the regular season. That was then and this is now. And right now, what went right for the Lightning for 82 games is suddenly going wrong.Since taking a 3-0 lead in the first period of Game 1, the Lightning have been outscored 9-1. They don’t look like the team that only lost 20 games. Instead, they look like one that is two losses away from the greatest choke job in the history of the NHL. And they will now have to orchestrate a comeback without Kucherov, who was suspended, for Game 3.Not that their leading scorer had been a factor in the series.Kucherov, Stamkos and Point have zero goals, zero assists and are a combined minus-7. Hedman, who missed the final two weeks of the season with a lower-body injury, looks like he’s lost a step. And Vasilevskiy cannot seem to stop the puck.Of course, Columbus has had a lot to do with that. The Blue Jackets don’t look intimidated. Instead, they are playing like a team that has nothing to lose.Under Blue Jackets head coach John Tortorella, whose pre-game speech in Game 1 seemed straight out of the NFL, Columbus has turned this series into a street fight, something that Tampa Bay’s skilled line-up is not accustomed to playing.Point was suckered into dropping the gloves with Zach Werenski in Game 2, while Kucherov, who racked up 17 penalty minutes on Friday night, was suspended for Game 3 for tripping Markus Nutivaara and then hitting the defenceless player into the boards.If there is some hope for the Lightning, it’s that the Blue Jackets were in this exact same position against the Capitals a year ago, when they stole the first two games on the road, but failed to close out the series. Maybe the Lightning, which didn’t lose three straight games at all during the regular season, will pull off a similar comeback.But if they don’t, a window of opportunity is there for the rest of the teams in the playoffs. If Tampa Bay goes out early, the Cup is up for grabs — a thought that has to have crossed the minds of the Maple Leafs and Bruins and pretty much every other team in the playoffs.Then again, nothing is guaranteed.The Penguins, who have Sidney Crosby, Evgeni Malkin and more Stanley Cup experience than any other team in the playoffs, are down 2-0 to a no-name Islanders team. Over in the West, the eighth-seeded Stars won Game 1 against the Predators, while a Jets team that went to the conference final a year ago also lost both games at home to a Blues team that was dead last in the conference in early January.Welcome to playoff hockey, where choosing the winner is like predicting the result of a coin flip. It might not be fair. But it sure is fun. And to those who chose Matt Duchene and Artemi Panarin in your playoff pools, congratulations.WHY THE BLUE JACKETS ARE LEADING THE SERIESHow have the Columbus Blue Jackets taken a 2-0 lead against the Tampa Bay Lightning? Well, look no further than the stars. While Tampa Bay’s Nikita Kucherov, Steven Stamkos and Brayden Point are still searching for their first point of the series, the Blue Jackets’ best players have risen to the occasion:Matt DucheneAcquired at the deadline, Duchene only had four goals and 12 points in 23 games with the Blue Jackets. But he has made up for it in the playoffs, where he leads the team with a goal and three assists.Artemi PanarinIt was in Game 1 when Panarin set up Seth Jones on the power play for the winning goal with 5:55 remaining in the third period. He added a goal and an assist in Game 2.Sergei BobrovskyThe Columbus goalie looked shaky after allowing three goals on the first 12 shots in Game 1. But since then, Bobrovsky has stopped of 48 of 49 shots.Zach WerenskiMatching up against Tampa Bay’s big guns, Werenski has limited Nikita Kucherov and Brayden Point to zero points, while scoring a goal and two assists. As a bonus, he also suckered Point into a fight.mtraikos@postmedia.comtwitter.com/Michael_TraikosWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN