Published: April 4, 2019 Updated: April 12, 2019 9:32 AM EDT Filed Under:
- famous sandwich masterpieces served up regularly at FAMO Sandwich Creations on Sherbourne St. A chance meeting with a lovely young woman resulted in an invitation for me to be a guest on Newstalk 1010s Jerry Agar show recently.I had met the lovely Becky Coles – Jerry’s producer – at a women’s event several weeks earlier and we hit it off immediately.We talked about all sorts of issues, like why is it so difficult for men to discuss such topics as periods? JB Owen, founder and CEO of Lutus Liners WASHABLE PANTY LINERS (Lotusliners.com) and a woman whose mandate is to discuss periods in normal conversation without the spectre of shock value, came to mind.“Do you think Jerry would talk about periods?” I asked.That plus more, said Becky – so the show was all about periods and erectile dysfunction, bad breath and body odour. Gasp! All the taboo subjects.Jerry was a great sport about it, and we covered a lot of ground, including discussing the recent Academy Award-winning documentary titled Period. End of Sentence, on how, in many countries, menstruation can end young girls’ education dreams. 

Lotus Liners washable panty liners
The show flew by – we didn’t get a chance to touch on flatulence as a form of office bullying – but perhaps another time, Jerry. Thanks, Becky – a real pleasure!DARE TO BITEIs the question that Chef Babak Fami is challenging foodies visiting his FAMO’s unique sandwich creations.Chef believes in no waste when it comes to food, as he stand’s behind his restaurant’s concept of “sea to farm, we cook it all – tongue to cheek, we eat it all.”Each week Babak prepares unique flavour and ingredient combinations that can be enjoyed between two buns. You have until tomorrow to try his latest creation: the three-layered Lucky Lamb Sandwich, made with layers of braised lamb feet in white wine, lamb sausage, beer-battered lamb tongue topped with fried onion dill coleslaw, roasted garlic anchovy mayo and a shaving of pecorino cheese, in between a ciabbata bun from the local Petit Thuet bakery.There is always something new and unique and delicious at FAMO – like grilled Portobello mushrooms with caramelized onion, arugula slaw or a slow-braised pulled pork with homemade BBQ sauce, traditional fish and chips with peas wrapped in a torilla, a brisket chuck beef burger and more. Visit and taste for yourself!— FAMO Sandwich Creations, 122 Sherbourne St. 416 360-1221; Monday-Friday, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Famo.ca. #daretobite.SALESGUESS? MARCIANO WAREHOUSE SALE: This much-anticipated apparel warehouse sale is now on until Sunday at the International Centre, offering unbelievable savings on all sorts of great labels including Esprit, Vero Moda, Bench, G-Star Raw, Guess? Marciano and much more, with savings up to 90% off the retail.– Guess Warehouse Sale, to April 7, 6900 Airport Rd., Hall 6, Thursday-Friday, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m., Saturday, Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Premiumretailgroup.com.REVLON, JOHNSON & JOHNSON SALE: Is also taking place at the same location, different hall, with major savings on all sorts of health and beauty items as well as household items and much more. Savings are up to 75% off the retail on brand name beauty, skin care, hair care and much more.– Revlon, Johnson & Johnson Warehouse Sale, to April 7, International Centre, Hall 5A, Thursday-Friday, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday, Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saleevent.ca.SLAVINRAPHAEL SAMPLE SALE: You have one day only to take advantage of this famous sample sale, where name brands like Ted Baker footwear, Tiger of Sweden, New Balance footwear and apparel and much more, are on sale. Sale is on this Saturday.– Slavinraphael Sample Sale, Sat. April 6, 80 Wingold Ave. 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.KITCHEN STUFF PLUS SPRING WAREHOUSE SALE: Here’s your chance to save up to 90% off a large variety of products with name brands like Cuisinart, Paderno, Umbra, Sunbeam, KitchenAid and Oster. Tons of kitchen stuff, furniture, dinnerware, linens, samples and many scratch and dent items — all at closeout prices. Sale starts this Friday –- two locations to choose from.Kitchen Stuff Plus Spring Warehouse Sale, April 5-8. Kitchenstuffplus.com/warehouse-sale.1st location: 135 Wendell Ave. (off Wilson ave.), Friday, 2 p.m to 10 p.m., Saturday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Sunday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.2nd location: 499 Main St. Brampton. Friday-Saturday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Sunday, 9 a .m. to 6 p.m., Monday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.CLEAN AND GREEN FOR SPRINGBack by popular demand is the Fruits & Passion CUCINA all-purpose cleaner made with renewable, plant-based ingredients. The products are safe and eco-conscious. Free of phthalates, formaldehyde, chlorine, parabens or glycol ethers, the products are not tested on animals, nor are the ingredients derived from animals. Plus the packaging is fully recyclable, biodegradable, and made in Canada.– For additional details, check out Fruits-passion.com/en-ca or any Face Shop retailers.rdemontis@postmedia.comWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Toronto SUN