(Source: Silent Witness)Police say the woman jumped through the drive-thru window. When she was inside the restaurant, she assaulted a clerk and took some food without paying (Silent Witness) (Source: Silent Witness)(Source: Silent Witness)Police say the woman jumped through the drive-thru window. When she was inside the restaurant, she assaulted a clerk and took some food without paying (Silent Witness) (Source: Silent Witness)Police are asking the public to help them find a woman who jumped through a McDonalds drive-thru window. (Source: Silent Witness) PHOENIX (3TV/CBS 5)-- Police are asking the public to help them find a woman who climbed through a McDonalds drive-thru window and assaulted a clerk last month.[VIDEO: Woman caught on camera jumping through Phoenix McDonalds drive-thru]The incident occurred back on March 3 at a McDonalds near 51st Avenue and McDowell Road. Police say the woman jumped through the drive-thru window. When she was inside the restaurant, she assaulted a clerk and took some food without paying. The suspect is being described as a Hispanic woman, her age between 25 and 35 years old. She is about 5 foot 4 inches, weighs about 160 pounds and has brown hair and brown eyes.The woman was last seen wearing a yellow and gray jacket and gray pants.If you have any information regarding this case you may contact Silent Witness at 480-W-I-T-N-E-S-S, 480-948-6377, or 480-T-E-S-T-I-G-O for Spanish speakers.Copyright 2019 KPHO/KTVK (KPHO Broadcasting Corporation). All rights reserved.(Source: Silent Witness)Police say the woman jumped through the drive-thru window. When she was inside the restaurant, she assaulted a clerk and took some food without paying (Silent Witness) (Source: Silent Witness){{description}}Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.Your comment has been submitted.ReportedThere was a problem reporting this.SPECIAL LOAN OFFER!!!Are You Tired of Seeking Loans and Mortgages? Have You Been Turned Down Constantly By Your Banks and Other Financial Institutions? Here is an opportunity of getting a loan from a reliable source. We Offer Loans from a Minimum amount of $5000 to $5,000,000.00 Maximum. We give out loans to all categories of Business Owners and Startup, Personal Interest, Real Estate and Mortgages, Companies, Industries etc. we give out loans at very cheap and moderate interest rates with a Well structured repayment schedule. We are trusted, reliable and dynamic. Serious and interested individual should contactEmail at: georgeneggaguaranteeloan[AT]yahoo[DOT]comFascinating that this website rejected my comment, first saying it contained profanity, which it did not (unless they consider the words inequality, white privilege, of Affirmative Action profane.). When I tried to post the same comment a second time it was rejected as spam.  Interesting to see that racist comments are considered neither by this publication.Yes the libertards who run this site are racist against whites and I have said that i wanted to use a nail with threads on it and they said that was profane.  Sheesh.If you think that this woman's eyebrows, her skin pigmentation, or her ancestors made this woman behave this way- why not think again?  After all, is it your  eyebrows, your skin pigmentation, or your ancestors that make you think that way?Apparently appearance means quite a bit to those who post here.  Take a good look in the mirror.I should've said ..."to a NUMBER of those who post...".  Sorry- everyone who posts here is an individual, not an automaton.  DIdn't mean to offend...Did not mean to offend?  That is all you do." After all, is it your eyebrows, your skin pigmentation, or your ancestors that make you think that way?"Sort of. pigmentation and ancestors make a difference. Let me know the percentage of white or black women who slap sharpie on their face, compared to welfare rats like this one. So eyebrows are not the source of the problem, they are the result.Well, I was talking to you, for one.If those crossing the southern border of Mexico are any indication, then yes - I'll say people are right to be weary of brown people that look like they don't belong. Of course, you are more than welcome to hold a daisy and cheer the invaders on. I hope you get caught in the crossfire you little wench I don't know what you mean by "look like they don't belong here".  You might want to read up on the Gadsden Purchase, and on Alta California.  Arizona has been Mexican longer than it's been in the US, in fact, AZ was the last of the contiguous states to be admitted to the union.  The invaders at that time were light-skinned.  When you talk about those who "look like they don't belong here"- who do you include?  What do looks have to do with character?  I don't wish evil on you.  I don't understand why you'd wish it on me.  I wonder whether you're so angry because you have an inferiority complex.She’ll be back when she gets hungry.More West Valley losers doing their thing.  This looks like it was done in Maryvale aka Loservale.  No offense to Mr. John F. Long or to his lovely wife, Maryvale. He meant well when he developed the place and named it after her but it's a low life dump now filled with violent and murderous losers.  No such thing as White privilege. We can sure tell who the liberal in the group is. should have splashed her with hot coffee.Whose baby mom’s is this?Welp, she’s a chicana with sharpie-eyebrows. Thug lifeMexican women need to stay away from the Sharpie markers.[thumbup][thumbup][thumbup][thumbup]Brown plague.Maybe you need to get off the laxatives.  You complain about this all the time.  Seek treatment, please.Nuusman=Alzheimer’s patientPerhaps one day.  But not today.  I find your comments vacuous, like the situation in your gut causing your brown plague.  Just try not to keep getting it on these pages, please.160 lbs?  Being a little under-generous on the weight huh?  Im surprised she was able to lug that tub of fat through the window. Its fun when people show the rest of us just how badly they have failed at life.And we should all scoff at her for "failing", right? Of course, she was awarded all the opportunities of white privileged youth and somehow squandered it, I bet.  Shame on her.No such thing as white privilege. We can sure tell who the liberal in the group is. Every one has equal operitunite but NOT equal outcome!Sure, it takes privilege to know not to draw on your eyebrows and climb through the take out window.  Smdhsfr8 - 'White privilege'? HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAH.  You guys crack me up with your pathetic anti-White sniveling.  If there were White privilege, guess what, there'd be nothing wrong with it. A merica is a White country and we should be privileged in the country we pioneered, developed, and made. But, unfortunately we get no privilege in our own country, a White country, America.  every non-White seems to get privilege here though.  A completely backwards situation. No "White Privilege?"  ROTFLMFAO!!!  I am 59 going on 60 and I have experienced white privilege most every day of my life.  I don't know what rock you have been hiding under but every time you drive without getting pulled over for "driving while black" (a real thing), you are experiencing white privilege.  Every employment opportunity you have ever received has been tainted by your whiteness.  Your credit scores and opportunities to take out loans depend greatly on your zip code.  You don't see your white privilege just like a pig farmer doesn't smell his hogs - you are so used to it, you deny its very existence.  Word up, Daddy, just because you do not believe in something doesn't make it false.  America is not a country.  It's two continents connected by an isthmus.  By the way, have you ever heard of the Native Americans?  They have inhabited both continents far longer than white people (I'm white, of Eastern European descent).  Speaking about the tyranny of the King of England, here's what the writers of the Declaration of Independence wrote about the tribes they'd knew about:  "He (King George III) has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction of all ages, sexes and conditions. "  The authors and those who signed it were all white, weren't they?Why not do some research on "skin color bias"?  It's very interesting.White privilege is just secret code for " we suck at life, and need an excuse for it."Send em all home so i can revel in my white privilege, and my yellow vette.
Log In
Keep it Clean. Please avoid obscene, vulgar, lewd,
racist or sexually-oriented language.
PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.
Don't Threaten. Threats of harming another
person will not be tolerated.
Be Truthful. Don't knowingly lie about anyone
or anything.
Be Nice. No racism, sexism or any sort of -ism
that is degrading to another person.
Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on
each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness
accounts, the history behind an article.
