Hi Already a subscriber?Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?Manage your account settings.View the E-NewspaperManage your NewslettersLog OutGet the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutThe UOG Sports Camp is looking for responsible individuals who are interested in applying as camp counselors and camp aides. More info. in today's WYNTK.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        
    Submitted footage from the United Airlines Guam Marathon in Tumon, April 14, 2019.
    Courtesy of United Aitlines Guam MarathonTuesday will be partly cloudy with isolated light showers, according to the National Weather Service. East winds 15 to 20 mph. Highs around 88 and lows around 77.Rate your level of concern about sexual assault on Guam. Poll closes at 3 p.m. April 16, 2019. Educators from Guam’s public and private schools are invited to participate in the three-day workshop offered April 16-18.The workshop is free and includes a field trip to the Northern Guam Lens Aquifer led by Water and Environmental Research Institute Director, Dr. John Jenson.To enroll, contact Eloise Sanchez at esanchez@gdoe.net or call 687-5202. Optional graduate credit is available. More: Have some 'egg-streme' fun at this year's Easter egg hunts for childrenThe University of Guam Sports Camp is looking for responsible individuals who are interested in applying as camp counselors and camp aides. Experience working with kids is preferred. The position is open to ages 16 and above who are responsible, enjoy playing and coordinating activities with kids.Apply now at https://www.uog.edu/administration/administration-finance/human-resources/job-opportunities.php. More: Stay active and learning at one of this year's camps offered for youthMore: Catch 'Mamma Mia!' live next week at the FD Phoenix CenterThe results of 43 samples taken by the Guam Environmental Protection Agency on April 11 identified that the following recreational waters were polluted above the accepted bacteriological standards.  