By Rod Ardehali For Dailymail.com  Published: 15:03 EDT, 13 April 2019  |  Updated: 17:01 EDT, 13 April 2019  View  commentsEmmanuel Deshawn Aranda was arrested Friday at the Mall of America in Bloomington, MinnesotaThe 24-year-old man accused of throwing a child over a third-floor railing at the Mall of America in Minnesota has a history of mental health problems and had twice been ordered to stay away from the mall, court records show. Emmanuel Aranda has a long string of arrests and convictions for misdemeanor criminal offenses in recent years and in 2015 was issued a trespass notice ordering him to stay away from the Mall of America. He ignored the order and was arrested after harassing two women diners at a restaurant and throwing water glasses at diners, according to a criminal complaint.He was also arrested on July 4, 2015, after police said he matched the description of a man throwing things off the upper level of the mall to the lower level. At the time of Friday’s attack, there was an active warrant for his arrest stemming from a 2017 assault case in Hennepin County. Aranda was at the mall Friday, police said, when he threw or pushed the boy over the railing, sending the child some 30 feet or more onto a stone floor two levels below. Aranda was chased down inside the mall and was taken into custody. Witnesses say a woman at the mall was screaming hysterically after the child was thrown.Horror: Police were called to the Mall of America in Bloomington after witnesses said an unidentified man allegedly throwing the young child from the height, before trying to fleeThe 24-year-old suspect was chased down inside the mall and was taken into custody'She was screaming 'Everyone pray, everyone pray. Oh my God, my baby, someone threw him over the edge,'' Brian Johnson told WCCO. Emergency crews had rushed to help the child who was seen lying in a puddle of blood. Police do not think there is any relationship between the man and the child or the child's family.  Brian Johnson, a Minneapolis resident, told the Daily News he didn't see the incident, but said he saw the aftermath. Potts said, emphasizing that police believe this to be an 'isolated incident.' The area where the fall occurred has been closed (picture taken from the third floor after the man was arrested)He said the child was lying 'motionless, he was in a pool of blood.' 'Additional information from witnesses indicated the 5-year-old might have been pushed or thrown,' Bloomington Chief of Police Jeff Potts said.Police officers gave the child first aid along with witnesses, Potts said.'The child did suffer significant injuries,' he said. 'The child has been transported to the hospital and has been receiving care.' Police do not think there is any relationship between the man and the child or the child's familyPolice were called to the Mall of America in Bloomington after witnesses reported an unidentified man either throwing or pushing the young child from the height, before trying to fleeAccording to Potts, witnesses told police the person suspected of pushing or throwing the child 'took off running immediately after the incident.' He's currently at the Bloomington Police Department, Potts said, and authorities don't believe there is any further threat to the public.'At this time, we do not believe that there is a relationship between the child or the family of the child,' Potts said, emphasizing that police believe this to be an 'isolated incident.'Police do not think there is any relationship between the man and the child or the child's familyThe area where the fall occurred has been closed. “This was a senseless act and words cannot truly express our profound shock and sadness,' the Mall of America said in a statement on Friday. 'Our immediate and only concern is for the wellbeing of the family and the child, as well as for any individuals who may have witnessed the incident. 'We have counseling services available for anyone who may need assistance. We know that this is a concerning event for all of us. 'As the Bloomington Police Department continues to investigate how and why this isolated incident happened, we will provide our full cooperation.'A GoFundMe page has been set up for the child, to donate click HERE. Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group