Yet another awful knife attack in LondonIn a second incident of brutal violence in Harrow in under 24 hours a teenage boy was stabbed multiple times. He was attacked on the High Street in the Wealdstone area of Harrow on Monday evening (April 15) and police have a crime scene in place. Harrow MPS warned members of the public to avoid the area and the Metropolitan Police have said no arrests have been made. "Police were called at 6.24pm on Monday to reports of a stabbing in Harrow ," a spokesman said.   "Officers attended the High Street in Wealdstone and a male, believed to be a teenager, has been taken to hospital with multiple injuries. These are not thought to be life-threatening.   "There have been no arrests at this stage." The latest stabbing in London has shocked people in the area, with Imran Yusuf tweeting: "This has gotten ridiculous now. Where are these perpetrators coming from? Why has Harrow so fast become a hotbed for this kind of violence?" This incident follows on from a scary fight outside South  Harrow  Tube station where  attackers were seen wielding “cricket and baseball bats”  on Sunday evening (April 14). A fight closed the busy Northolt Road for hours overnight, as well as the Tube station just after 8pm on Sunday. A man in his 30s was rushed to hospital with “assault related injuries” and on Monday  Metropolitan Police  said his injuries were not life-threatening. Officers have arrested four men in connection with the attack, on suspicion of grievous bodily harm (GBH). Anyone with information on the stabbing is asked to contact police on 101, quoting CAD reference 6057/15April.    Alternatively, to remain anonymous call the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 - they will not ask your name or trace your call.  "Any young people who have information about violence or knife crime, can visit  www.fearless.org , where they can pass on information anonymously - the I.P address will not be traced. Fearless is part of the Crimestoppers charity, and is also independent of the police.  Follow our blog for real-time updates. We've set up a new WhatsApp group so you can receive the latest London headlines straight to your phone.To receive one message a day with the main headlines, as well as breaking news alerts, send one of the following to 07900 342671 on WhatsApp, depending on where you want to receive news from:Then add the number to your phone contacts book as 'MyLondon'. You must do this or you will not receive the messages.You will receive one message a day. You can reply with the word STOP at any time.Your phone number won't be shared with other members of the group.