By Jasper SchererHouston Police investigate at the scene of an officer involved shooting at 2600 Alabama,Saturday, April 13, 2019, in Houston. A teenager was shot in the leg, a non-life-threatening injury.  The officer was not injured.Houston Police investigate at the scene of an officer involved shooting at 2600 Alabama,Saturday, April 13, 2019, in Houston. A teenager was shot in the leg, a non-life-threatening injury. The officer was notCaptionCloseHouston Police investigate at the scene of an officer involved shooting at 2600 Alabama,Saturday, April 13, 2019, in Houston. A teenager was shot in the leg, a non-life-threatening injury.  The officer was not injured.Houston Police investigate at the scene of an officer involved shooting at 2600 Alabama,Saturday, April 13, 2019, in Houston. A teenager was shot in the leg, a non-life-threatening injury. The officer was notA suspect who allegedly pointed a gun at a Houston police officer was shot in the leg Saturday and transported to the hospital in fair condition, officials said.HPD commanders responded at about 10:15 a.m. to reports of the shooting on Alabama Street near Texas Southern University. A sergeant shot a 17-year-old suspect after he aimed a weapon at the officer, HPD executive assistant chief Troy Finner said.BREAKING NEWS UPDATES: Get your Houston breaking news alerts delivered to your inboxThe sergeant was uninjured and will be placed on administrative leave, a routine procedure for officer-involved shootings, Finner said, adding that the sergeant fired the gun twice.Finner defended the sergeant who pulled the trigger, saying he was "proud" that the officer had prevented further injury."Young men out in our community who are packing pistols -- stop it," Finner said. "Nobody wants officer involved shootings.The suspect will likely be charged with aggravated assault, Finner said.NEWS WHEN YOU NEED IT: Text CHRON to 77453 to receive breaking news alerts by text message | Sign up for breaking news alerts delivered to your email here.