Police urged members of the public to avoid the areaWhen do we all say enough is enough and make sure something is done to stop the horrific number of stabbings happening in London?!In the latest awful attack, a teenage boy's been stabbed multiple times in Harrow this evening (Monday, April 15).He was attacked on the High Street in the Wealdstone area and police have a crime scene in place.The Harrow MPS Twitter account urged members of the public to avoid the area.The tweet, sent at 7pm reads: "Officers are on scene at High Street, Harrow Wealdstone following reports of a teenage male being stabbed multiple times."His condition is currently unknown, a crime scene has been put in place. Please avoid the area whilst officers investigate the incident."Providing an update, a Met Police spokesman said officers were called at 6.24pm to reports of a stabbing."Officers attended the High Street in Wealdstone and a male, believed to be a teenager, has been taken to hospital with multiple injuries," they added. "These are not thought to be life-threatening. "There have been no arrests at this stage."Follow our blog below for the latest updates on this breaking news story.Did you see anything? Are you at the scene? Email ellie.mckinnell@reachplc.com with any information or if you have pictures of the crime scene.  Want more news? Go to the MyLondon homepage .If you ever see or hear about anything you think we should be covering, email mylondonnewsdesk@reachplc.comA horrifying witness account of this evening’s stabbing.We have received more information from police on this evening’s shocking stabbing. You can read the latest on the teenager’s condition here as people still search for the attacker.The High Street stabbing in the Wealdstone area followed on from a separate incident outside South Harrow Tube station where attackers were seen wielding “cricket and baseball bats” on Sunday evening (April 14). A fight closed the busy Northolt Road for hours overnight, as well as the Tube station just after 8pm on Sunday.A man in his 30s was rushed to hospital with “assault related injuries” and on Monday Metropolitan Police said his injuries were not life-threatening.Officers have arrested four men in connection with the attack, on suspicion of grievous bodily harm (GBH).Do you agree with this view? If so, what do you think needs to be done? Do you get the feeling that crime is increasing where you live? Our handy interactive tool below will help you find out for sure as it has the latest crime statistics from police. Good evening and welcome to our updates on the awful news that there has been another stabbing in Harrow.Police are urging members of the public to avoid the area.