One year after Kendrick Lamar was awarded the prestigious honor for DAMN.Today, the 2019 Pulitzer Prize winners have been announced. Composer and sound artist Ellen Reid has won the Pulitzer Prize for Music. She is being honored for her opera p r i s m. Watch an interview with Reid about the project below. Finalists included James Romig—for his solo piano composition Still—and Andrew Norman, for his orchestral work Sustain.The late Aretha Franklin was also awarded a “Special Citation,” for “her indelible contribution to American music and culture for more than five decades.”Ellen Reid is a composer based in Los Angeles and New York. p r i s m, her debut opera, focuses on the psychological trauma following sexual assault, told through a surreal story taking place between a mother and daughter in a “pristine sanctuary” where they are “locked away from the world.” Its premiere made Reid the very first composer to be commissioned by all four of Los Angeles’ major classical music institutions: the Los Angeles Philharmonic, L.A. Master Chorale, Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra, and L.A. Opera. The libretto was written by Roxie Perkins, and it was directed by James Darrah.In a statement, Reid said:I am blown away and incredibly honored to receive this year’s Pulitzer
Prize in music. Composing p r i s m was a challenging, rewarding and
deeply personal experience, and I hope this opera will help shed light
on the experience of surviving sexual assault. While Roxie and I did
not plan for the timeliness of the subject matter, I am so grateful
that it has resonated with audiences.A massive thank you to the collaborators who are central to this work:
Roxie Perkins, Beth Morrison and everyone at BMP, James Darrah, Julian
Wachner and the folks at Trinity Church Wall Street, Chris Bordenave,
Rebecca Jo Loeb, Anna Schubert, Tatiana Barber, Charbel Rohayem, Gigi
Todisco, Christopher Koelsch & LA Opera, Daniela Candillari,
PROTOTYPE, Choir of Trinity Wall Street, Garth MacAleavey, Adam Rigg,
Molly Irelan, Pablo Santiago, Eclipse Projects, Adam Lesser, Karen &
Randy Reid.Now I’m going to listen to some Aretha to celebrate!Last year, the 2018 Pulitzer Prize in Music was awarded to Kendrick Lamar for his album DAMN. His win marked the first time a non-jazz or classical artist won the award.“[When I heard I got it], I thought, to be recognized in an academic world... whoa, this thing really can take me above and beyond,” Kendrick said in a 2018 interview. “It’s one of those things that should have happened with hip-hop a long time ago.”Read “With Kendrick Lamar’s Pulitzer Win, The World May Finally Be Catching Up to Rap” on the Pitch, and read Pitchfork’s feature “How Aretha Franklin Earned Her Crown As the Queen of Soul.”This article was originally published on Monday, April 15 at 3:26 p.m. Eastern. It was last updated at 7:47 p.m. Eastern.