Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).Read more
John Shipton says he was shocked to see the state of his son Julian Assange when the latter was arrested in London     FAR FROM HOME. This file photo taken on February 05, 2016 shows WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange coming out on the balcony of the Ecuadorian embassy to address the media in central London. File photo by Ben Stansall/AFP SYNDEY, Australia – WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange's father on Sunday, April 14, called on Australia to bring his son home, saying he was shocked to see his son's condition after his arrest in London last week.John Shipton – who was secretary of the Wikileaks Party when his son tried to run for a senate seat in 2013 national elections – reportedly visited Assange every Christmas at the Ecuador embassy in London after he sought refuge there in 2012. (READ: Timeline of WikiLeaks founder's Ecuadoran stay)"DFAT (Department of Foreign Affairs) and the prime minister should in a nuanced way do something," Shipton told Melbourne's Sunday Herald Sun."It can be resolved simply to the satisfaction of all. There has been some talk in a meeting between a senator and a senior DFAT official to extradite Julian to Australia," he added.Shipton said he was shocked to see the state of his son when he was arrested at the embassy on Thursday, April 11, on allegations of skipping bail, and on a United States extradition warrant related to a huge leak of official documents."I saw him, the way they dragged him down the steps, the coppers (police), he didn't look good. I'm 74 and I look better than him and he's 47. It's such a shock," he said."For months and months he has been living like a high-security prisoner, he can't even go to the toilet. There have been cameras watching his every move," added Shipton.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Friday, April 12, that Assange would receive "no special treatment" from Canberra.The 47-year-old Australian had sought refuge in the embassy while on bail awaiting extradition to Sweden to face charges of sexual assault and rape, which he always denied.British lawmakers on Saturday urged their government to prioritize any extradition bid Sweden might make for him over the allegations.Swedish prosecutors dropped a preliminary investigation into the rape allegation in 2017. – Rappler.comWe tell you the stories that matter. We ask, we probe, we explain.But as we strive to do all this and speak truth to power, we face constant threats to our independence. Help us make a difference through free and fearless journalism. With your help, you enable us to keep providing you with our brand of compelling and investigative work.Joining Rappler PLUS allows us to build communities of action with you. PLUS members will receive our editorial newsletters and industry reports, get to join exclusive online conversations with our award-winning journalists, and be part of our monthly events.Make your move now. Join Rappler PLUS.
These stories made other people 
Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).Read moreEmail:Password:Thank You.

View your profile page
here OR
Click close to continue.
Fields with * are required.Email*:Password*:First Name:Last Name:Birthday:Gender:I've read the Rappler privacy statement, site use policy, comment moderation policy Fields with * are required. Thank You.You have successfully updated your account.