By James Billot For Mailonline and Amar Mehta For Mailonline  Published: 14:08 EDT, 13 April 2019  |  Updated: 01:43 EDT, 14 April 2019   44View  commentsLocal residents breathed a collective sigh of relief after protesters for Julian Assange finally left the Ecuadorian embassy this morning. Around 50 to 60 supporters of the Australian-born Assange assembled outside the embassy after he was arrested on April 11.Protesters had gathered around the embassy in the wake of the Wiki-Leaks co-founder's arrest, but left the area in a 'total state', according to one resident.Homeowners living near the embassy in the well-heeled Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea tonight told MailOnline how the protesters made a 'real ruckus' and described Assange as a 'pain in the a**e'.Wikileaks founder Julian Assange gives a thumbs up as he leaves the Westminster Magistrates Court in a police van, after his arrest at the Ecuadorian Embassy on April 11'All these protesters left the place in a total state,' said the resident.'All this rubbish is from them. They aren't even going to come back.'    Assange had been living in the embassy since 2012 after he sought refuge there following a ruling that he should be extradited to Sweden to face sexual assault allegations. Bin liners full of protest paraphernalia such as flags, banners and posters were spotted along with ripped tents, chairs, clothes and even a frying pan. A bed, banners and bin bags full of rubbish were left outside the Ecuadorian embassy, after the protesters leftA parking attendant (who did not wish to be named) said: 'They just left all this s*** and took off.'I've been working around here and although the kept it quite civil, they just left all there stuff here and haven't come back for it.'  One Harrods guard said there were about '10-15 protesters,' today and described them as a 'noisy bunch'. A banner which reads 'Free Assange' and poster of Wiki-Leaks founders Chelsea Manning and Julian Assange, were left by protestersA bed, red tents, banners and bin bags full of rubbish were left outside the Ecuadorian embassy, after the protesters leftA bed, banners and bin bags full of rubbish were left outside the Ecuadorian embassy, after the protesters leftAnother Harrods guard added: 'There was nothing wrong with what they were doing but I can see they left quite a bit of a mess around here so it's not great form from them.' Tensions between Assange and the embassy had been mounting over the last few months following reports that the Wiki-Leaks co-founder's deteriorating hygiene and rude conduct irritated staff members.In recent weeks, bizarre rumours about Assange's pet cat also started to emerge. A protester seen holding a banner reads ' Free Assange' during the demonstration in support of Julian Assange in 2018Supporters of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange hold placards with slogans that read 'We are all Assange' (pictured left) and 'Ecuador country of freedom' (pictured right) in 2012A guard working at Harrods said there were about '10-15 protesters,' and one man was apparently there for 140 days. He described them as a 'noisy bunch'One resident said: 'Julian had a cat that the embassy thought was spying on them. He let it roam around the place and the embassy thought he put a camera on its head. The embassy did not trust him.'He also got his own s*** and rubbed it around his bedroom because he was so depressed. All this stuff was from the protesters. 'They left tents here at night and put bricks in it but didn't actually sleep in them apart from that one guy.'Locals in Kensington believe the rubbish was left by protesters, who had gathered for the arrest of AssangeA bed, pallets and bin liners were some of the items left outside the Embassy todayWashington Del Pino, a tourist from Ecuador said: 'I don't really see why we kept him, it wasn't worth it. 'It seems crazy to me and a lot of people back home but the opinion in Ecuador varies. 'I just don't think it was worth it to be honest.' One man is said to have slept outside the embassy for over 100 days, according to local residentsA black duffel bag filled with clothes was found among the pile of rubbish dumped on Landon Place, LondonOne dedicated protester is believed to have slept outside the embassy for over 100 days. A resident said that he 'slowly accumulated' piles of clothes and rubbish while he camped outside the embassy.One resident said: 'He was here for about 140 days. 'Half of all this junk belongs to that one guy and I'm not sure he is going to come back to collect it. 'It looked like he had his own en suite by the end'.A rubbish bag with what looks like post from Simone Perele and Russell & Bromley were dumped outside the embassyIt is not confirmed who the clothes belong to, but residents said they were left by protestersA 'Free Julian Assange' banner hangs from railings outside of the Embassy of Ecuador in KnightsbridgeAnother resident said the protesters made a 'real ruckus' at one point and described Assange as a 'pain in the a**e'. A chauffeur working in the area said: 'I didn't see any protesters today because I was in and out but yesterday there were at least 50 or 60. They kept things professional and on point.  'I heard things went a bit mad when the bloke came out the embassy but apart from that they kept it together. 'Demonstrators protest outside the Ecuadorian consulate on June 20, 2012 in LondonProtesters show their support for Julian Assange outside the Ecuadorian embassy in 2012Supporters of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange shelter from the rain as they demonstrate outside the Ecuadorian embassy in 2012Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group