Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutMike Nicosia, South KitsapA link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        In last week's column, "God and Democrats," Cal Thomas argues that his brand of Evangelical Christianity has the real truth on the Jesus narrative. He mentions Mayor Pete Buttagieg and argues the mayor can't be a true Christian because he has views similar to those who do not believe in God.Buttagieg's belief that government should help care for citizens with programs like Medicare and Social Security is socialism, writes Thomas, which is antithetical to a "true Christianity" that believes in being personally responsible to care for "the least among us." At what point does Thomas's brand of Christianity begin to judge itself and the party it supports? Conservatives embrace and applaud a president whose entire life has been dedicated to lying, cheating, stealing and defrauding. A president who insults the handicapped and veterans, who assaults women and laughs about it. In his reading of scripture,  Thomas must find all of this perfectly acceptable under the rubric of "do not judge." Where is the  "personal Christian responsibility" to care for the least among us in a crisis? Do we see billionaire evangelicals offering money or support to refugees? Would these same evangelicals find the courage to judge and intervene if these refugee children were being physically beaten and tortured? Would they speak up if we called these children unborn fetuses?There clearly are options to the refugee crisis beyond a wall, a gun in the face and ripping children from their parents. Thomas notes that the Good Samaritan offered  money and lodging while the victim recovered. Why do his evangelicals not encourage a similar idea from the president they love? These are examples of "the truth" evangelicals claim about their understanding of Jesus. I have to ask how they can possibly be right about anything else. Mike Nicosia, South Kitsap 