Minneapolis: Of everything she heard on the first day of the trial, four words hit Sarah Kuhnen the hardest. We both got spooked. Kuhnen has spent the past week at a courtroom in downtown Minneapolis watching the trial of Mohamed Noor, the police officer who killed her neighbour, Australian Justine Ruszczyk Damond.A photo of  Justine Ruszczyk Damond is seen at memorial service for her in Minneapolis in August, 2017.Credit:APRuszczyk, a 40-year-old meditation teacher and life coach from Sydney’s northern beaches, was shot dead in July 2017 after calling 911 to report a possible sexual assault near her Minneapolis home.She had walked outside barefoot in her pyjamas, carrying only a mobile phone.In his opening statement to the jury, prosecutor Patrick Lofton revealed the initial statement that Noor’s police partner, Matthew Harrity, gave to investigators after Ruszczyk’s death. "She just came up out of nowhere,” Harrity said. “We both got spooked, and I had my gun out. I didn't fire. Then Officer Noor fired."Hours later, the words were still swirling around in Kuhnen’s mind.“When I heard that I was shaking, I was rageful,” she says. “If an officer feels spooked it means they can kill somebody? I can't believe that is a defence in our criminal justice system."Mohamed Noor arrives at for a hearing in Minneapolis over the fatal shooting of Justine Ruszczyk Damond. Credit:APNoor's trial has riveted this vibrant city of 422,000 people in the American Midwest. Local media outlets are covering each development in minute detail, and almost every local you meet has an opinion about the case.“This is our trial of the century,” says Michelle Goss, from the local group Communities United Against Police Brutality. "The case has woken up a lot of people in Minneapolis. The idea that police shootings only happen to people who are doing bad things suddenly crumbled away."In her opening remarks last week, Judge Kathryn Quaintance said the Noor trial has attracted more publicity than any criminal case she had seen in almost 20 years on the bench.Noor is the first police officer in Minnesota's history to be charged with murder for shooting someone while on duty. If convicted, he will be the first police officer in the state to go to jail for shooting a civilian.These facts alone make the case historically significant, but there are deeper dynamics at play that explain the enormous interest it has aroused.Unlike most US police shooting victims, Ruszczyk was a blonde, white woman who lived in a wealthy area. The officer who shot her was not just black but Muslim, a celebrated member of Minneapolis's burgeoning Somali community.When Noor was charged last year, the Somali-American Police Officers Association said: "We believe these charges are baseless and politically motivated, if not racially motivated as well."The case has has inflamed Minneapolis's racial, religious and class divides to such a degree that some of Ruszczyk's neighbours fear there will be a violent backlash if Noor is sent to jail. “Let's not be naive," says Mel Reeves, a veteran activist in Minneapolis's African-American community. "Race is the elephant in the room in this trial."The suburb where Ruszczyk lived with her American fiance Don Damond resembles South Yarra in Melbourne or Wahroonga in Sydney.Fulton has leafy streets and stately homes, fashion boutiques and a farmers' market. Residents have a median household income of $US110,000 ($154,000), making it the fourth wealthiest neighbourhood in Minneapolis. Almost everyone who lives there is white.If you were asked to name the least likely places in town to get shot by police, this would be high on the list."Nothing like this had ever happened in our neighbourhood before," says Mindy Barry, one of Ruszczyk's neighbours.Katherine Hamberg, who has lived in the area for 35 years, says: “We had heard what was going on with police brutality in neighbourhoods of colour."But it was only when it happened here, in our neighbourhood of white privilege, that it became real for us.”Although they lived just a few doors away, Barry and Hamberg did not know Ruszczyk well. Neither did Sarah Kuhnen. She probably wouldn’t remember meeting Ruszczyk at all if not for her Australian accent - a rarity in Minneapolis.Sarah Kuhnen, in blue, and other "Justice for Justine" activists outside the Minneapolis courtroom this week.Credit:APBut Ruszczyk's death had a transformative effect on her. “This was a woman trying to help another woman,” Kuhnen says. “Any one of us could have made that same call and gone out in our pyjamas to try to help the police. That’s the type of neighbourhood we lived in.”The use of past tense, she says, is deliberate. “I don’t feel safe anymore if police are around."The night after Ruszczyk's death, several neighbours gathered together and formed a group called Justice for Justine. They have organised vigils and protest marches and sent out press statements. They have Justice for Justine signs on their front laws reading: The world is watching.The members knew there was a risk they would be seen as a group of wealthy white people who only cared about police violence when it affected one of their own.A year before Ruszczyk was killed, Philando Castile, a 32-year-old black man, was shot dead in Minnesota after being pulled over by police.The officer who shot him was charged with manslaughter, but was later acquitted.The group's members have stressed that they want to achieve more than just sending Noor to jail; they want justice for the Philando Castiles of the world as well as the Justine Ruszczyks."Because of where we live, we have a voice and we feel we have a moral responsibility to use it speak up about how broken our police system is," Hamberg says. "Other communities didn’t get big crowds of media when they had press conferences. They didn’t get visits from the mayor, they didn’t get visits in their home from the police chief."The group's members have worked closely with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and other activists in the black community."They have done that at great political cost," says Todd Schuman, another neighbour. "They got pushback from people in their community who asked: where were these people when this was happening to us?"Civil rights activist Mel Reeves says most members of the black community see it as a "foregone conclusion" that Noor will be convicted. "When a black man shoots a white woman, he goes to jail," he says.Ruszczyk's neighbours are not nearly as convinced. Of the 98 police officers in the US who have been charged since 2005 with murder or manslaughter for an on-duty shooting, prosecutors have secured convictions or guilty pleas of only 35.Kuhnen believes there is at best a 50-50 chance of Noor going to jail.Michelle Goss, from the local group Communities United Against Police Brutality, is concerned that 12 of the 16 jurors in the case are men. They are likely to be more sympathetic to police than female jurors, she says.Ali Kalif wants to be clear: all Muslims - even police officers - are forbidden from killing. But he believes Noor has been a victim of profound injustice."Police officers kill people every day in America and they don’t go to court," says Kalif, an optician who emigrated to the US from Somalia two decades ago. "If this was a white guy they would have let him go. Because his name is Mohamed it’s different."Kalif is sipping on a smoothie at the Karmel Mall in southern Minneapolis. The mall is just a 15-minute drive from Ruszczyk's home in Fulton, but it feels like another world. You can buy camel milk, traditional Somali samosas and colourful headscarves. At several points throughout the day all the shops close for prayers.The Karmel Mall, in southern Minneapolis.Credit:Matthew KnottMinnesota is home to an estimated 60,000 Somali-Americans, one of the biggest concentrations in the country. Last year the city sent the first ever Somali-American to the US Congress. The election of 37-year old Ilhan Omar was seen as a symbol of the community's successful integration into US society.It was the same in 2015 when Noor became the first Somali-American officer to serve in Minneapolis's fifth precinct.In a lengthy post on Facebook, Minneapolis mayor Betsy Hodges said Noor's arrival had been "highly celebrated, particularly by the Somali community in and around Karmel Mall".But an Uber ride to the mall makes clear that not everyone in Minneapolis has welcomed the influx of Somali immigrants."There has been a negative reaction to the Somali community here," says Mike Ferrell, a white 40-year-old fishing guide and Uber driver. "The Noor trial has rekindled that fire."Asked why this is so he says: "They are rude, they don't understand American culture.""In the '90s so many Somalis came here so fast that it led to pushback."He says tensions heightened after September 11 and the rise of Islamic extremism. Between 2011 and 2017 some 33 Somali-Americans from Minnesota were charged with terrorism-related complaints - 13 per cent of the total charges laid over that time.Somali-Americans counter that they are likely to experience greater discrimination than white Americans. Indeed, when it was revealed that Ruszczyk was killed by a Somali-American, there were some flagrantly racist responses.“Was Noor acting like the Muslim religious police, maintaining strict adherence to keeping women’s bodies covered when he shot Justine?" asked former Minnesota congresswoman Michele Bachmann "Was he acting from a cultural instinct?"While Katherine Hamberg, Ruszczyk's neighbour, hopes that Noor is convicted she is nervous about what could follow.There is a chance of "violent feedback" if he is set to jail, she says. "It’s going to be hard because they will say he was only found guilty because he is black and the victim was white."Uber driver Mike Ferrell agrees. "There is no happy ending to this trial."Matthew Knott is a journalist for The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age based in the United States.Copyright © 2019