Joey Barton was stopped by the police from leaving Oakwell after an alleged assault by the Fleetwood manager on Barnsley boss Daniel Stendel.Following Fleetwood's 4-2 defeat, words were exchanged between the two managers at the full time whistle and the words continued as the pair walked down the tunnel.The apparent assault then took place as they and the players made their way back into the dressing rooms, with the pair having to be separated after the altercation.Since the incident Barnsley have released a statement on their official website regarding the matter, which read: “The club can confirm there was an alleged incident in the tunnel area that took place following the conclusion of today’s match, which South Yorkshire police are currently investigating.Club statement.https://t.co/H3N36HYXk9 pic.twitter.com/kCl0B3T4LT“The club is assisting the police with its enquiries and, as a result, we are not in a position to make any further comment at this time.”There were then remarkable scenes captured by the Sky Sports' cameras showing Barton trying to make a mad dash out of the stadium, before the police blocked the car and prevented him from fleeing.Police stopped Joey Barton from leaving Oakwell as they investigate an alleged assault by the Fleetwood manager on Barnsley boss Daniel StendelThe police are now investigating the claims of assault, and it's not the first time the former Premier League midfielder has found himself in trouble this season. In January he was charged by the FA after comments he made regarding the referees after his side's loss to Bristol Rovers and was fined £2,000.The investigation is set to begin immediately, with Barton's Fleetwood side next in action on Friday afternoon when they host Peterborough United at Highbury Stadium.Please enter your email address associated with the account so we can help reset your password. 
              By signing up, I agree to the Sports Illustrated Terms of Use. I acknowledge that I have read the Privacy Policy. 
            
            For further information, please contact customer service at 1-888-806-4833 or write to Sports Illustrated Customer Service | Attention: Consumer Affairs | 3000 University Center Drive Tampa, FL 33612-6408.
            You have successfully created your Sports Illustrated Account.You currently have no favorite teams.You currently have no favorite writers.
                Sports Illustrated treats this information with care and respect. For details, review Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
              Remove or add teams to and from your list of favorites
                Add more favorite teams from the list below based on your geolocationRemove or add writers to and from your list of favorites The most trusted voice in sports delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up now to receive Sports Illustrated's best content, special offers and much more.By signing up I agree to the Sports Illustrated Terms of Use. I acknowledge that I have read the
                Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from email communication at anytime.
                
                For further information, please contact customer service at 1-888-806-4833 or write to Sports Illustrated Customer Service | Attention: Consumer Affairs | 3000 University Center Drive Tampa, FL 33612-6408.
                
              Thank you for signing up!
              Please check your inbox to confirm your email
              address and start receiving newsletters.
            