WWE legend Mickie James has revealed she wants to become the “Monday Night Milf” if she keeps her place on Raw.She will have to make it through the first-ever Superstar Shake-up, a series of trades within the Raw and Smackdown brands. It kicks off tonight, and potentially every wrestler on the WWE’s roster could be involved. Mickie, 39, tweeted: “So if I stay on WWE Monday Night Raw…I mean..can we get Monday Night Milf over or naw?!“Maybe a t-shirt?! Definitely a koozie. Asking for a friend. #MondayNightMilf.”  One fan suggested the title “MilfMania” and Mickie responded: “It writes itself really.”Another fan gave a new meaning to the anagram and wrote: “Moms I’d like to fight, obvs.” Mickie has won the women’s wrestling title five times and the divas championship once. She competed in this year’s Women Royal Rumble match but lasted just 11 minutes before being eliminated by Tamina Snuka.  “So if I stay on WWE Monday Night Raw…I mean..can we get Monday Night Milf over or naw?!”Mickie also tweeted her disappointment after not participating in WrestleMania 35. Dash Wilder tweeted last month: “We’ll probably face @RobGronkowski and Mojo at Mania.” Mickie responded: “Better than NOT working #Wrestlemania I suppose.”Meanwhile, WWE boss Vince McMahon is reportedly “on edge” following a series of clashes with wrestlers and officials. Brock Lesnar was unhappy with the timing of his match and Banks was not pleased with the last-minute decision to lose the WWE Women’s Tag Team Titles, it is claimed. Two referees were also fined over WrestleMania weekend – including one who was blamed for the abrupt ending of the main event as Lynch pinned Ronda Rousey. SmackDown Live’s head writer Road Dogg also reportedly stepped down this week citing frustration with McMahon. TRAGIC DJ Avicii was hooked on “20 pills a day” as he battled his chronic painkiller addiction.BRADLEY Welsh was gunned down at point blank range by an "assassin" disguised as a jogger, it has been claimed.A FORMER Aston Villa footballer who was jailed for brutally assaulting a woman has issued a public apology and now hopes to get his career back on ...Copyright ©2019 Express Newspapers. "Daily Star" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.