Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
News
By Joshua Rhett Miller
Submit 



									April 15, 2019 | 3:35pm
											| Updated April 15, 2019 | 3:43pm
A man who was caught on camera beating a transgender woman after a traffic accident in Dallas has been arrested, police said.Edward Thomas, 29, was taken into custody by police late Sunday for “his role in the aggravated assault” of the woman at an apartment complex in the city’s Oak Cliff section.Investigators are probing the attack as a possible hate crime, the Dallas Morning News reports.A 36-second video clip shows Thomas viciously punching the woman after the minor accident, police said. Several others in the crowd appear to be egging the attack on, with at least one person kicking the victim as she lay helpless in the middle of the street, the video shows.The victim, who was identified by relatives to WFAA as Muhlaysia Booker, told police that the people who assaulted her yelled homophobic slurs during the attack outside of the Royal Crest Apartments.Booker, who appeared to be knocked unconscious, was rushed to the hospital after several women dragged her away from the melee, video shows. She’s now recovering from facial fractures and an injury to her right arm, WFAA reports.“[Booker is] thanking God that she’s still alive,” one relative told the station.Mayor Mike Rawlings said he was “extremely angry” after seeing what appeared to be mob violence against Booker.“Those who did this do not represent how Dallasites feel about our thriving LGBTQ community,” Rawlings said in a statement on Facebook. “We will not stand for this kind of behavior.”Thomas remains held on $75,000 bond on a charge of aggravated assault causing serious bodily injury, jail records show.
Read Next


				Chinese woman accused of sneaking into Mar-a-Lago denied b...			

Read Next


				Chinese woman accused of sneaking into Mar-a-Lago denied b...			
Share Selection
This story has been shared 117,353 times.
117,353

This story has been shared 97,724 times.
97,724

This story has been shared 82,693 times.
82,693

© 2019 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | Terms of Use | Privacy | Your Ad Choices | Sitemap

							News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.						