
	   By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our 
	   Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. 
	   

IANS 								  								  | 
								  								  								  Agartala 							  

							  Last Updated at April 13, 2019 17:25 IST
https://mybs.in/2X5H7sxDoctors and other staff members of Tripura government hospitals, on strike since beating up of a surgeon on Thursday, called off the protest on Saturday following intervention of the high court and the state government.
The Indian Medical Association (IMA), the All Tripura Government Doctors' Association (ATGDA) and the nurses' organisations, spearheading the agitation since Thursday, announced the withdrawal.document.write("<!--");if(isUserBanner=="free"&&(displayConBanner==1))document.write("-->");googletag.cmd.push(function(){googletag.defineOutOfPageSlot('/6516239/outofpage_1x1_desktop','div-gpt-ad-1490771277198-0').addService(googletag.pubads());googletag.pubads().enableSyncRendering();googletag.enableServices();});

"We are withdrawing our agitation as the government has taken steps to provide security to doctors in hospitals and has promised action against the accused," IMA Tripura chapter Secretary Kanak Chowdhury said.
He said Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb at a meeting with leaders of the IMA and the ATGDA on Friday said armed securitymen would be deployed in hospitals.
The IMA and the ATGDA also urged the government to take steps to fast track cases against those responsible for 11 attacks on doctors in the past one year. Satisfactory health services could not be possible due to shortages of doctors and inadequate infrastructure, they added. 
In an unprecedented move, Tripura High Court Chief Justice Sanjay Karol at a special hearing on Friday stayed a lower court order granting bail to the five accused, arrested by the police in connection with attack on surgeon Dipankar Debnath.
Justice Karol ordered the accused would remain in jail till April 24, the next date of hearing in the case. 
Law and Education Minister Ratan Lal Nath said the Chief Justice heard the case at 10 p.m. on Friday and stayed the order of the first class judicial magistrate court.
Dr Debnath was assaulted early Thursday after a pregnant woman died at the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital. He is under treatment at the Govind Ballabh Pant Medical College and Hospital, where his condition is said to be "out of danger".
In another development, Health Minister Sudip Roy Barman surrendered his security to protest attacks on doctors and other medical staffs in the government hospitals. 
Barman in a letter to the Chief Minister, a copy of which is available with IANS, said: "The government doctors and other health staffs in the government hospitals are feeling insecure." He requested the Chief Minister to direct the police to take action against accused of attacking doctors in the past one year. 
--IANS
sc/rs/pcj
(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)PREVIOUS STORYNEXT STORYCopyrights © 2019 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.Upgrade To Premium Services Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of "Business Standard Premium Services"As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include:Premium Services In Partnership with Dear Guest,Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS.
         Kindly visit the Manage my subscription page to discover the benefits of this programme.

         Enjoy Reading!
         Team Business Standard
      