
Saturday 20 April 2019

By Associated Press Reporters

April 13 2019 6:27 PM

Brazilian football great Pele has successfully undergone surgery for the removal of a kidney stone in a Sao Paulo hospital.
The Albert Einstein Hospital said on its website that Pele’s surgery went well, but did not provide additional details.The 78-year-old was hospitalised in Brazil on April 2 after spending five days in a Paris hospital for a urinary infection.He had been in France to attend an event with forward Kylian Mbappe.Pele has been in the hospital frequently over the last few years for kidney and prostate problems.
Press Association
Jemma Crew Climate change protesters at four key sites in London remain out in force over the Easter weekend as the number of arrests tipped 700.Harriet Line BRITISH MP Diane Abbott has apologised "sincerely" for drinking a mojito on public transport in London.By Sylvie Corbet, Associated Press Some 180,000 bees kept in in hives on Notre Dame’s lead roof have been discovered alive despite the destructive blaze at the Paris cathedral.Today's news headlines, directly to your inbox every morning.

Sign Up

Climate change protesters at four key sites in London... 
BRITISH MP Diane Abbott has apologised "sincerely"... 
Some 180,000 bees kept in in hives on Notre... 
Players who took part in the #Enough campaign... 
Dozens of motorbikes and cars have been set on fire in eastern Paris as a yellow... 
A woman who lost her baby son and husband within... 
AN HEIRESS to a multi-billion dollar fortune has pleaded guilty in a case involving a... 
A man has fought off several dingoes to save his 14-month-old son from one of the... 
A suicide blast rocked the Afghan capital Kabul during a gun battle with security forces. 
Congressional Democrats took legal action on... 
The number of people arrested in connection... 
Donald Trump said he was "having a good day"... 
President Donald Trump reacted to the... 
Organisers behind the climate change... 
US attorney general William Barr reiterates... 
Sydney police has reunited a homeless... 
US President Donald Trump explains his... 
A tour bus carrying German tourists crashed on Portugal’s Madeira... 
Footage from the scene in Edinburgh where Trainspotting 2 star Bradley... 
Photographs taken on March 1, 2018 and of the same... © Independent.ie 