While the VCK will be backing DMK for the four Assembly bypolls, the house of a DMK functionary in Chennai was attacked by bombs. 
      Published: 13th  April 2019 03:30 AM  |  
      
         Last Updated: 13th  April 2019 03:30 AM

  |  A+A A- VCK Leader Thol Thirumavalavan (File| PTI)VCK to support DMK in bypollsChennai: The VCK has extended its support to the DMK for the four Assembly constituencies where bypolls will be held. Thol Thirumavalavan, VCK president, conveyed in a statement,”We extend our support to DMK for the four Assembly constituencies where bypoll has been scheduled on May 19.” He urged the VCK cadre to work for the victory of the DMK candidates in the four Assembly seats like in other constituencies. Meanwhile, DMK president MK Stalin said that the party would support the Congress-led alliance in Maharashtra. It may be recalled, a large number of Tamils live in Maharashtra in general and in Mumbai in particular. PMK cadre told to win all 40 seatsChennai: PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss has urged party cadre to work towards ensuring 100 per cent victory in the general elections. In a press note, he said, “The last four days before polling is very crucial for election victory. The cadre should intensively campaign among the voters by highlighting the welfare measures of AIADMK and promises of our alliance. The reports from the constituencies say the alliance can win all the 40 constituencies. But, overconfidence shouldn’t lead to a lethargic attitude. Hence, the cadre should work towards ensuring victory in all the 40 constituencies and 18 assembly seats.”FOLLOW OUR FULL ELECTION COVERAGE HEREBomb attack on DMK man’s houseChennai: Unidentified men hurled petrol bombs at the house of a DMK functionary at Anna Nagar here on Friday. His car was damaged.  Paramasivam, the office-bearer, alleged it was the handiwork of members of another party with whom they fought on Thursday night, with regard to distribution of money during election rally. “Around 3 am, when Paramasivam was at home, two masked men on a bike hurled petrol bombs at his house and escaped”, said a police officer. The bombs landed on the car. Based on a complaint by Paramasivam, TP Chatram police registered a case and are investigating. Advance bail to AMMK candidate madurai: The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court granted anticipatory bail to Dr K Kathirkamu, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) candidate for Periyakulam by-election, who was apprehending arrest in a sexual harassment case. Justice M Dhandapani passed the order on a petition filed by the candidate, directing him to cooperate with police inquiry after the election.  Kathirkamu was booked under sections 417 (Punishment for cheating), 376 (Punishment for sexual assault) and 506 (I) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC, following a complaint given by a woman that he had sexually assaulted her at the hospital in 2015 and had threatened her. O
    P
    E
    NDisclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the newindianexpress.com editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.The views expressed in comments published on newindianexpress.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not represent the views or opinions of newindianexpress.com or its staff, nor do they represent the views or opinions of The New Indian Express Group, or any entity of, or affiliated with, The New Indian Express Group. newindianexpress.com reserves the right to take any or all comments down at any time.  JKLF chief Yasin Malik on hunger strike against NIA custody  Talks with IMF for bailout package to start soon: Pakistan Finance Advisor to PM Imran Khan  Manchester City gain Spurs revenge to remain in control of title race  Democrats in US House demand release of full Mueller report amid impeachment call  LS polls 2019: AAP Kerala to back LDF, suspends state convener who announced support to Congress  Air India can hire Jet's co-pilots, not 'costly Captains': IPGCopyright - newindianexpress.com 2019The Morning Standard | Dinamani |  Kannada Prabha |  Samakalika Malayalam | Indulgexpress  |  Edex Live  |  Cinema Express |   Event Xpress  Contact Us |  About Us |  Careers | Privacy Policy |  Search |  Terms of Use |  Advertise With Us  Home |  Nation |  World |  Cities |  Business |  Columns |  Entertainment |  Sport |  Magazine |  The Sunday Standard  