
	   By continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our 
	   Cookie Policy unless you have disabled them. You can change your Cookie Settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them. 
	   

IANS 								  								  | 
								  								  								  New Delhi 							  

							  Last Updated at April 13, 2019 19:36 IST
https://mybs.in/2X5H7v3A total of 251 candidates contesting in the second phase of Lok Sabha polls have declared criminal cases filed against themselves, including 167 with serious criminal cases, according to an analysis of self-sworn affidavits of 1,590 candidates by the National Election Watch and Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).
While there are a total of 1,644 candidates in fray for the second phase due on Thursday (April 18), 54 candidates could not be analysed due to unavailability of their properly scanned and complete affidavits, a statement from ADR said.document.write("<!--");if(isUserBanner=="free"&&(displayConBanner==1))document.write("-->");googletag.cmd.push(function(){googletag.defineOutOfPageSlot('/6516239/outofpage_1x1_desktop','div-gpt-ad-1490771277198-0').addService(googletag.pubads());googletag.pubads().enableSyncRendering();googletag.enableServices();});

The report shared by the ADR said that among major parties, 23 out of 53 candidates from the Congress, 16 out of 51 candidates from the Bharatiya Janata Party, 16 out of 80 candidates from the Bahujan Samaj Party, three out of 22 candidates from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, 11 out of 24 candidates from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and four out of 11 candidates from the Shiv Sena declared criminal cases against themselves.
It added that out of those, 17 candidates from the Congress, 10 from the BJP, 10 from the BSP, three from the AIADMK, seven from the DMK and one from the Sena were involved in serious criminal cases.
The analysis also showed that three candidates declared they have been convicted in cases against them while six declared cases related to murder against themselves and 25 candidates cases related to attempt to murder.
The statement added that 8 candidates declared cases related to kidnapping while 10 declared cases against them related to crime against women such as rape, assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty, and husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty.
A total of 15 candidates also declared cases related to hate speech against themselves.
While 423 candidates declared assets worth over Rs 1 crore with most from the Congress (46) and the BJP (45), the average assets of candidates from the Congress was Rs 31.83 crore and those from the BJP was Rs 21.59 crore. 
There were 16 candidates who declared zero assets.
Congress' Kanniyakumari candidate Vasanthakumar H. had the highest declared assets (over Rs 417 crore), followed by its Purnia (Bihar) candidate Uday Singh (over Rs 341 crore) and Bangalore Rural candidate D.K. Suresh (over Rs 338 crore).
Hindustan Janta Party's Solapur (Maharashtra) candidate Shrivenkateswar Maha Swamiji declared assets worth only Rs 9, while two independent candidates from Tamil Nadu's Mayiladuthurai, Rajesh P. and Raja N., declared assets worth Rs 100.
The analysis also showed that there are 52 candidates with assets worth more than Rs 1 crore who have not declared their income tax details. Among them are Independent candidates from West Bengal's Raiganj, Binoy Kumar Das, and Bangalore Central, C.B.K. Rama, who have declared assets worth over Rs 18 crore and Rs 15 crore respectively.
--IANS
vv/vd
(This story has not been edited by Business Standard staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)PREVIOUS STORYNEXT STORYCopyrights © 2019 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.Upgrade To Premium Services Business Standard is happy to inform you of the launch of "Business Standard Premium Services"As a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include:Premium Services In Partnership with Dear Guest,Welcome to the premium services of Business Standard brought to you courtesy FIS.
         Kindly visit the Manage my subscription page to discover the benefits of this programme.

         Enjoy Reading!
         Team Business Standard
      