Residents living near the scene of a stabbing say the park where it happened has become blighted by anti-social behaviourNeighbours living close to a park where a teenage boy was stabbed on Friday night say it has been blighted by youths repeatedly setting fire to wheelie bins.Police sealed off part of  Ellesmere Park, on Harrowby Street in Farnworth, after a 16-year-old boy was stabbed just before midnight. Now numerous residents who live nearby have told the Manchester Evening News that anti social behaviour is a serious problem in the park, particularly with wheelie bins being stolen and torched there. One neighbour recalled the emergency services being called out three times in the same night in recent weeks.  Another neighbour, who asked not to be identified, said anti social behaviour in the park was now so bad that it was like 'World War Three'.They say young people congregate in the park and make a significant amount of noise late into the night every weekend.They said: "We have the same problem every weekend with the bins being set on fire. It's dreadful, it's like World War Three in the park."We've been here for a few years now and this year is the worst it's ever been for kids in the park."The school holidays are the worst."Last Saturday the police were there three times to fires in the park."It's a shame, it's beautiful in there."You can hear the kids every night. What the hell are their parents thinking?"They are not little kids, they are teenagers. Where do they go? There is nothing for them to do."When we first moved in we had trouble with teenagers throwing stones at our windows."There needs to be more patrols. The problem is, they are not frightened of the police."Residents reported hearing a number of voices in the park last night, before the fire service, and then police, arrived at the scene.On Saturday afternoon a wheelie bin was laying on its side in the middle of the park with its contents strewn around, close to where police had erected a cordon.   Earlier this year police and the fire service in Bolton issued a warning amid fears that wheelie bins were being set on fire so the fumes could be inhaled. They warned that it is extremely dangerous as the fumes from the plastic are highly toxic. The investigation into Friday night's stabbing is continuing . A 54-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of section 18 assault.  Anyone with information should contact police on 0161 856 2161, quoting incident number 2747 of 12/04/19.  Reports can also be made anonymously to Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.  