BRIDGEWATER — An East Bridgewater man faces gun and assault charges after police say he punched a Bridgewater man and threatened to kill him.Around 7:30 p.m. on April 10, Bridgewater police were called to a house on Summer Street. There, officer Christopher Paze found a man with a bloodied lip and chin.The man told Paze that a man later identified as Joshua Zukowski, 19, of 206 South St. in East Bridgewater kicked and punched him while two women, later identified as Amanda Luckman and Brittney Pelrine, both 23 of Bridgewater, rifled through his pockets. One of the women hit the victim, and told him to watch his back. The three then fled in a green Audi sedan.The victim showed police a Snapchat message he received on April 8, which police said was a photo of Zukowski holding an assault rifle, captioned “Dead n—.”Paze told other local police departments to be on the lookout for the Audi sedan, and minutes later, East Bridgewater Sgt. William Patterson spotted the car parked at Zukowski’s home.Patterson found Luckman, Zukowski and Pelerine in the car, along with a black plastic bag containing open bottles of cognac and spiced rum.Paze asked Pellerine and Luckman what happened in Bridgewater. In his report, he wrote, “After several minutes of being deceitful and denying the incident, they both admitted to being at (the victim’s) house with Zukowski. Luckman said there was a fight in the driveway, but that it was mutual between the two men. Both women denied rifling through the victim’s pockets.When Paze questioned him, Zukowski denied having been out at all that evening. Zukowski had recently been released on bail following October 2018 gun and drug charges, and wore a GPS ankle monitor—he told Paze to look at the GPS to see where he’d been on that night.Meanwhile, Patterson and Officer Patrick O’Brien searched the house where Zukowski lives with his parents. In Zukowski’s bedroom, they found a Ruger .22 pistol with the serial number scratched off. Detectives the East Bridgewater Police Department and the Plymouth County Bureau of Crimnial Investigations were called to the South Street house, and police obtained a search warrant.Police found a large-capacity magazine containing 31 rounds of ammunition, and a black M&P 15 assault rifle with the serial number scratched off.Bridgewater police charged Zukowski with unarmed assault to rob, assault and battery, assault and battery with a shod foot, and threat to commit murder.East Bridgewater police charged him with two counts of possession of a firearm without a license to carry, improper storage of a firearm near a minor, improper storage of a large-capacity firearm near a minor, unlawful possession of a large-capacity feeding device, two counts of possession of a firearm with a deface serial number, possession of a firearm without a firearms ID card, unlawful possession of an assault weapon, and possession of alcohol under age 21.Zukowski was arraiged April 11, and is being held on a total of $75,000 bail.© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse NewsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							Georgetown Record  ~ 75 Sylvan Street, C 105, Danvers, MA 01923 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service