Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutSt. Lucie County felony arrests: April 15, 2019A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        
    Treasure Coast Crime Stoppers accepts anonymous tips to help fight crime. GINNY BEAGAN/TCPALM
    WochitPatricia Nicole Hubble, 41, Ocala; out-of-county warrant, Alachua County, failure to appear, burglary of an unoccupied conveyance while unarmed, hit-and-run, leaving scene of crash involving damage to property.Lemuel Patrick Saul, 42, 600 block of Holly Avenue, Fort Pierce; warrant for court order to revoke pretrial release, driving while license suspended.Christopher Matthew Mazzacone, 19, 100 block of East Arbor Avenue, Port St. Lucie; warrant for court order revoking pretrial release, tampering with evidence, possession of a controlled substance without a prescription, possession of drugs with intent to sell.Michael Andrew Markovitz, 52, 5400 block of North U.S. 1, Fort Pierce; warrant for court order revoking pretrial release, possession of a weapon by a convicted felon, aggravated assault with a deadly weapon.More: Man accused of harming woman in wheelchair, trying to pull down her pantsMore: Person shot three times in leg in St. Lucie CountyShawn Lenwood Patrick, 30, 2000 block of South 26th Fort Pierce; driving while license suspended, third or subsequent offense.Latrice Wydelia Holyfield, 35, 2900 block of Citrus Avenue, Fort Pierce; warrant for petty theft on April 12.Carmine Joseph Rozzo, 46, Wellington; warrant for court order for pretrial detention and termination of pretrial supervision, driving while license revoked, habitual offender, introduction of contraband into a county detention facility.Anthony R. Soares, 32, 2400 block of Dalpina Road, Port St. Lucie; warrant for grand theft on April 12.Ashley Victoria Napier, 29, 600 block of Northwest Monroe Street, Port St. Lucie; warrants for fraudulent use of a credit card, organized fraud, grand theft.De'trayveon Jakeem Frederick, 21, Jacksonville; warrant for court order revoking pretrial release, trafficking phenetheylamines, resisting an officer without violence; warrant for failure to appear, trafficking phenetheylamines, resisting an officer without violence, destroying, tampering with or fabricating physical evidence, possession of weapon or ammunition by a convicted federal felon, trafficking in amphetamine or methamphetamine.Travis Lee Sparks, 35, 1800 block of Linwood Avenue, Fort Pierce; warrant for violation of probation, giving false information to a pawnbroker.Rian Taylor Hummel, 25, 400 block of 21st Court, Vero Beach; child neglect - without great bodily harm; destroying, tampering with or fabricating physical evidence; possession of cocaine.John W. Diskin, 37, 2300 block of North Old Dixie Highway, Fort Pierce; warrant for violation of probation, possession of cocaine.Vanessa Ann Walker, 34, 1400 block of Southwest Prairie Circle, Port St. Lucie; warrants for child neglect, contributing to the delinquency of a child.Christopher Michael Walker, 37, 1400 block of Southwest Prairie Circle, Port St. Lucie; warrants for child neglect, contributing to the delinquency of a child.Randolph Reeves Rider, 57, 11000 block of Orange Avenue, Fort Pierce; aggravated battery - cause bodily harm or disability.Treasure Louise Jellison, 23, no listed street address, Fort Pierce; child neglect without great bodily harm.Britney Lee Eakins, 27, 2000 block of Southeast Floresta Drive, Port St. Lucie; possession of cocaine; possession of marijuana over 20 grams.Cody Lane Johns-grose, 22, 900 block of Buckeye Drive, Fort Pierce; possession of cocaine; possession of marijuana over 20 grams.Vincent Andrew Ostrowski, 47, Clermont; smuggling contraband into a detention facility.Zackary Thomas Spears, 23, 2000 block of Southwest Sunglow Street, Port St. Lucie; possession of cocaine; possession of marijuana over 20 grams.Ruben Enrique Rodriguez, 39, Miami Beach; possession of a controlled substance (cocaine).Marvin Devon Taylor, 32, 2400 block of North 44th Street, Fort Pierce; commit domestic battery by strangulation.Michael Wayne Adams, 47, 900 block of North 16th Court, Fort Pierce; aggravated assault with a deadly weapon without intent to kill; smuggling contraband into a detention facility.Lafayette Bernard Johnson, 21, Lauderhill; out-of-county warrant, Polk County, grand theft.Calvin Demeteria Smith, 33, 400 block of North 22nd Street, Fort Pierce; robbery with firearm.Gregory Demons Ford, 38, 2100 block of Avenue G, Fort Pierce; possession of a controlled substance (THC oil).  Arrested in Indian River County. 