by The Associated PressPosted Apr 15, 2019 3:41 pm EDTWAILUKU, Hawaii — Two inmates escaped from a Hawaii jail and over a razor wire-topped fence, prompting a manhunt across the island of Maui before one of them turned himself in to police. The other remained missing Monday.Troy Diego and Barret Paman escaped from the Maui Community Correctional Center Sunday at about 2:30 p.m., authorities. That’s when staff members noticed a broken door in the back of a dorm building.The facility went into a lockdown and staff members found clothing the razor wire at the top of a perimeter fence, authorities said.Paman, awaiting trial for burglary, theft and firearms charges, turned himself in to Maui police Sunday afternoon.Diego remained missing Monday. He’s awaiting trial for theft and unauthorized entry into a vehicle.Both men were being held under the lowest level of custody, said Toni Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Public Safety. They will face an escape charge, she said.Maui Mayor Michael Victorino urged everyone to “stay calm but remain vigilant” during the island-wide manhunt.The escapes come after a riot at the jail last month. The jail was designed to hold 301 inmates but had 410 at the time of the disturbance. State corrections officials say inmates were upset with extreme overcrowding.The Associated Press
Sign in to comment (not connected to your Insider Club login).You're logged in as  . Edit Profile | Logout.Loading profile...Unexpected error. Please try again.Notice: Your email may not yet have been verified. Please check your email, click the link to verify your address, and then submit your comment. If you can't find this email, access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email. You must have a verified email to submit a comment. Once you have done so, check again.Comment  

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
Subscribe to 680 NEWS newslettersI understand that I can withdraw my consent at any time{* public_profileBlurb *}You have activated your account, please feel free to browse our exclusive contests, videos and content.You have activated your account, please feel free to browse our exclusive contests, videos and content.An error has occurred while trying to update your details. Please contact us.Subscribe to 680 NEWS newslettersI understand that I can withdraw my consent at any timePlease confirm the information below before signing up.Subscribe to 680 NEWS newslettersI understand that I can withdraw my consent at any time

			By checking this box, I agree to the terms of service and privacy policy of Rogers Media.		We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one.Sorry we could not verify that email address. Enter your email below and we'll send you another email.