 Dear reader, please upgrade to the latest version of IE to have a better reading experienceMembers of the Shia Hazara community, protesting against the Hazarganji suicide bombing, ended their sit-in late on Monday night after receiving assurances from Balochistan Chief Minister Jam Kamal Alyani and State Minister for Interior, Sheharyar Afridi.The community had been protesting for the last four days against the bombing, which had claimed 20 lives in Quetta on Friday."The Haraza community has sacrificed a lot, and also shown their patience despite [the loss of] precious human losses," said Chief Minister Alyani, vowing "to bring to book the perpetrators of terrorist attacks".Despite rainfall, members of the Hazara community had continued their sit-in on Quetta's Western Bypass, which links the city with highways. Women and children were also part of the sit-in demanding action against the perpetrators of Hazara killings. The protesters had set up camps and burnt wood to keep warm at night. "We want justice," Kashif Hussain, one of the protesters, had told DawnNewsTV. The protesters had been chanting slogans, asking for an end to terrorism and to Hazara killings."Prime Minister Imran Khan should come and console us," Muhammad Raza, another participant of the sit-in, had said. "This time the government should go beyond words and do something practical for our protection."The premier has yet to visit the bereaved.  State Minister Afridi had arrived in Quetta on Monday to review the security situation. He was accompanied by Prime Minister’s Special Assistant on Overseas Pakistanis and Human Resource Development Zulfiqar Bukhari. Afridi had visited the Imam Bargah located in Hazara town to condole with the bereaved family members. Speaking to the media, Afridi said that the federal government stands with the Hazara community and that concrete steps will be taken to end the crimes against its members."The federal government will play its role in making sure that these heinous crimes end," he said."I stand with the community and I assure you that the government has been working to ensure that such crimes end. That is why this was the first such incident to occur over the span of nine months."The question is, who is it that wants to create these differences between Pakistanis? Who wants to create a situation of conflict within Pakistan?"I am saying these things and asking these questions because Pakistan's enemies want that this country be added to the [Financial Action Task Force] blacklist. They want that at every level, including the economic level, such blows be dealt that Pakistan — God forbid — breaks apart." Afridi and Bukhari also called on the Balochistan chief minister and other political leaders to discuss the means to improve security and end the ongoing protest by Hazara community.The minister was briefed about the investigation into the deadly suicide bombing, said a press release issued by the chief minister secretariat after the meeting. The protesters had earlier refused to call off the sit-in despite repeated requests by the district administration and appeals of provincial ministers, including Balochistan Home Minister Mir Ziaullah Langove, health minister Naseebullah Marri and others."We strongly condemn the terrorist incident but blockade of road needs to end in view of troubles for people," Rahim Agha, the president Anjuman e Tajaran, had said as the continued sit-in has caused blockade of the main Western Bypass road. Hazaras are disproportionately targeted by sectarian violence as they are easily identifiable due to their distinctive physical appearance. A report released by the National Commission for Human Rights (NCHR) last year stated that 509 members of Hazara community were killed and 627 injured in various incidents of terrorism in Quetta from January 2012 to Dec 2017.Why isn't PMIK coming to console victims?Sheryar Afridi is our interior minister and he is visiting Quetta after 4 days? IK please you need to do something about your team.An attempt in futility since the bereaved and battered Hazara community in Quetta wants only the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to pay them a visit and listen in-person to their legitimate complaints and just grievances.Too little too late!!!
Where is Imran Khan??The most unfortunate part is that statements and sometimes action follow only after such horrific incidents.  What else is more important for a government than the protection of life and property of its citizens?Too little too lateToo many times this poor community has been targeted and they always protest peacefully, its time the security and intelligence agencies fix this problem once and for allPrayers and use of force required...Gordon D. WalkerCanadaI am somehow getting worried about our current government and security forces' ability in dealing with the inward threats.Government stalwarts will go through their usual motions to pacify the people, and then it is business as usual.Shame on you IK.
Get there today.
Condem the brutality in live TV.
Then follow your words with actions.Imran khan should visit them..rather giving condolences messages. This should be  main difference between Nawaz and imran govt. Otherwise what is naya???@Dr. Salaria, Aamir Ahmad,  ....   No.  They want government protection so the killing stops.@Prateik,  He is Pakistani PM and you expect New Zealand response.Shambolic and disgraceful. Don't do trophy visits to rub salt on their wounds.  You are playing with emotions of a 'minority' that constitutes between 20-25% population of Pakistan.  The reality hurts but the more we see events like this, the more it feels true that we have institutional bias towards other sects in our country.  Institutions are made of people and it is the people that must be vetted in carefully to ensure there remains a balance of power.Where is IKI wish they were in NZ.Why did IK not go?  No action just empty words.@Sab Se Pehle Pakistan,  Well he needs to visit them himself firstNo execuse now for not to take strict actions. Government needs to break these people’s back forever. Public is with the government and victims.This is where the PM should lead, otherwise, all you’re doing is sending a bunch of words people have heard before many time. These people need assurance from the PM, they want support, they want to feel important because they too are just as Pakistanis as anyone else. A big missed opportunity for Imran Khan.Too little too late. The Prime Minister already missed the opportunity to show leadership. Hazara people are citizens of this country who are being butchered but the government has failed in arresting anyone for these murders as of this date while the PM has failed to show empathy and leadershipIs PM busy!!!!!@Hafeez, Canada ,
Dont find difference every way...@Sab Se Pehle Pakistan, 
He is not even the interior minister. 
He is just a secretary.When incidents like this happened in the past IK use to come down hard on nawaz and the PPP prime minister's for not going to Quetta yet he is doing the same.IK ego is too big to go there? He should learn from NZ Prime-minister.@Dr. Salaria, Aamir Ahmad,  Hey IK is very busy. Does not have time for the poor people.@Sab Se Pehle Pakistan,  These guys are too busy working on Twitter. It should be sufficient.Sad, innocent lives lost by this dastardly act. Imran Khan Govt should act forcefully against the perpetrators.It is real shame the poor people of Hazara have to ask IK to show up. IK needs to stop tweaking and show-up. IK needs to learn from NZ Prime Minister.@Gordon D. Walker,  unfortunately khan will never use force as he doesn’t have the backbone to confront extremismNothing will be done@RF,  why NZ they should be in IndiaPMIK has heavily disappointed this time.We strongly condemn the terrorist incident and pray for martyrs.(Texas )@Prateik,  This is a very good question. Is this IK's vision for a state like Medina in Pakistan? He should learn a lesson from New Zealand's PM who immediately went to the mosque where murders of Muslims took place last month, met with the victims' families and said "They are us."The assurances of past have never worked for Hazaras. Did PM visit them and give them compensations?finally another assurance.@Prateik,  a terrorist attack just took place last night in Peshawar's hayatabad area, which caused scores of martyrdom. Shall IK visit every of them too?@Sab Se Pehle Pakistan,  Actually, IK is the interior minister. Afridi is minister of state for interior ministry.What can these Poor Victims do, they must be feeling so helpless they no that they have given these assurances so many time that it has lost all meaning.
But they have no option but to believe these hollow words.@Khan, Fully agree with your comment.The same government minister was with the head of banned organizations. What a hypocrisyToo little, too late. Is there a deadline for catching the culprits or will this attack be forgotten in a few weeks like the countless other horrendous crimes committed in the past?What a difference between the reaction of the New Zealand Prime Minister and our PM when confronting tragedies in their respective countries. You felt that the NZ PM was genuinely concerned while our PM looks aloof.Poor helpless people, what else they can do?@Prateik,  u should ask same ques to Modi about kashmiris... get me answer first and then we will reply on ur comments !!Things are truly beyond prayers.  We can only expect action and relentless action against the killers and their abettors who are very well known as suggested by Mr Asad Khan in yesterday's column, who claim to have scored double century of murders, yet move around freely. Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed for Dawn.Copyright © 2019, DawnScribe Publishing Platform