Parents of slain Kripesh and Sarat Lal from Periya had filed a petition at the court to investigate the probe. 
      Published: 13th  April 2019 04:40 AM  |  
      
         Last Updated: 13th  April 2019 04:44 AM

  |  A+A A- Kerala High Court (File photo)KOCHI: Opposing the petition seeking CBI probe into the brutal murder of two Youth Congress workers at Periya, Kasargod, the state government on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that there was no evidence to prove the involvement of any higher-level CPM leaders in the killings. The investigating officer filed the statement in response to a petition filed by the parents of slain Kripesh and Sarat Lal from Periya.He submitted that 11 persons have been arraigned as accused in the case and 10 arrested. Local CPM leader and branch secretary Peethambaran is the kingpin and he gathered all accused persons and led them in action after together hatching a conspiracy under his leadership. Eighth accused Subeesh was still at large. A group of eight assailants had been part of the double murder.ALSO READ| Government using taxpayers’ money to deny us justice, says victim’s fatherIt was revealed the Congress workers attacked Peethambaran on January 5 in Kalliyott town in connection with a local issue. He and his local associates planned the whole incident. “As he’s not getting support from the higher-level party leadership, he even threatened to resign from the party. All these circumstances lead to a strong sentiment among his local associates, which lead to the brutal killing,” said the statement.The state government refuted the allegation that the investigation officer was removed after the commencement of the probe. The officer was replaced upon his personal request. It also stated there were no records regarding any forceful rescuing of second accused Saji C George by former MLA KV Kunjiraman from the police custody. The allegation with regard to the speech delivered by CPM leader V PP Musthafa threatening the deceased was also incorrect. It was only a political speech. “Nothing has been revealed so far to connect Musthafa to the crime, but the investigation is going on,” said the police.According to the police, any person who is having any role in the case will be included in the array of accused. No external forces had interfered in the probe as alleged by the petitioner. There was no information regarding the involvement of others in the case including big shark alleged in the petition. The investigation team is ready for probing the case on any available information. Since the special team has been conducting the investigation effectively and the main accused persons arrested, there was no necessity to hand over the probe to CBI or any other agency.O
    P
    E
    NDisclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the newindianexpress.com editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.The views expressed in comments published on newindianexpress.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not represent the views or opinions of newindianexpress.com or its staff, nor do they represent the views or opinions of The New Indian Express Group, or any entity of, or affiliated with, The New Indian Express Group. newindianexpress.com reserves the right to take any or all comments down at any time.  JKLF chief Yasin Malik on hunger strike against NIA custody  Talks with IMF for bailout package to start soon: Pakistan Finance Advisor to PM Imran Khan  Manchester City gain Spurs revenge to remain in control of title race  Democrats in US House demand release of full Mueller report amid impeachment call  LS polls 2019: AAP Kerala to back LDF, suspends state convener who announced support to Congress  Air India can hire Jet's co-pilots, not 'costly Captains': IPGCopyright - newindianexpress.com 2019The Morning Standard | Dinamani |  Kannada Prabha |  Samakalika Malayalam | Indulgexpress  |  Edex Live  |  Cinema Express |   Event Xpress  Contact Us |  About Us |  Careers | Privacy Policy |  Search |  Terms of Use |  Advertise With Us  Home |  Nation |  World |  Cities |  Business |  Columns |  Entertainment |  Sport |  Magazine |  The Sunday Standard  