Dennis Nett | dnett@syracuse.comEliane Pelletier, girlfriend of Kristopher Hicks who was murdered at a Chili's restaurant during a robbery in the fall 2018, gives her statement at the sentencing of William Wood, the ex-Chili’s employee who admitted killing two former co-workers. He was sentenced today to life in prison without parole. Dennis Nett | dnett@syracuse.comBy Elizabeth Doran | edoran@syracuse.com SYRACUSE, NY - Elaine Pelletier, girlfriend of Chili’s murder victim Kristopher Hicks, said in court Monday that she had a hard time deciding “what to say about the man I loved in front of the man who murdered him.”Pelletier, who also worked at the Chili’s in DeWitt, spoke in Onondaga County court at the sentencing of William Wood, 33, who admitted to killing Hicks and his co-worker Steve Gudknecht at Chili’s restaurant on Sept. 15, 2018.Wood was sentenced to life in prison without parole. Federal prosecutors are planning a death penalty case against him.Wood, who had previously been fired from Chili’s, "was one of us,'' she said. “We all had a special place in our dysfunctional Chili’s family - even Will.”Pelletier said she can’t make sense of what Wood did."We all made an effort to embrace him regardless of his issues,'' she said. “People gave him rides , we gave him bus fare; we even sang Happy Birthday to him.”Pelletier, who worked that night at the restaurant, said Hicks was closing Chili’s with other workers, chatting and “sweeping every last crumb” off the floor, she said.She said she urged him to not work too late because they had plans the next day - their first Saturday they had off together in weeks. They’d joked earlier about getting married the next day - and he’d kissed her on the forehead as he they went to work.She left about 45 minutes before the attack, after deciding to wait at home for Hicks.Chili’s murders: Heartbreak, horror and survivor’s guilt; killer speaksA surviving victim as well as family members and loved ones of the two men killed speak at sentencing of William Wood. He got life in prison without parole.Pelletier said after she got home she had showered and was waiting for Hicks to meet her. She was wrapped in a towel when a phone call came from another worker, Jessica Saum.Saum was “frantic and out of breath” as she told her Hicks and Gudknecht had just been shot, Pelletier told the court. (Saum survived because Wood’s gun jammed as he attempted to shoot her in the head. Another worker also escaped after the gun jammed.)Pelletier said she can’t even describe the “numbness and sense of shock” she felt when the doctor told her Hicks had died. When she asked if she had any questions, she only said “none that you could answer.”She described Hicks - who she said she fell in love with in the spring of 2018 - as extremely hardworking, ambitious and knowledgeable."He made me feel safe, centered and loved,'' she said, “He made me feel whole.”The chapter the pair would have written together has been erased by Wood, Pelletier said. But Hicks will "forever resonate in my heart and spirit,'' she said.Chili’s survivor speaks publicly for 1st time: ‘I was the most scared I’ve ever been'Chili's survivor Jessica Saum speaks for the first time in court today about the horror she experienced the night William Wood killed two of her co-workers.Families haunted by murder of 2 loved ones at Chili’s speak out: Loss, anger, much more Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2019 Advance Media New York. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Media New York.Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.   Ad Choices  