
			Trending:		 Los Angeles FC midfielder Mark-Anthony Kaye (14) brings the ball down the pitch against FC Cincinnati midfielder Allan Cruz (15) during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Christian Ramirez (21) headers the ball against FC Cincinnati defender Justin Hoyte (32) during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Diego Rossi (9) attempts a goal against FC Cincinnati defender Nick Hagglund (14) during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC defender Jordan Harvey (2) headers the ball again FC Cincinnati forward Darren Mattocks (11) during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Carlos Vela (10) brings the ball down the pitch against the FC Cincinnati defenders during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC midfielder Mark-Anthony Kaye (14) reacts after scoring a goal against the FC Cincinnati during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Carlos Vela (10) is hugged by his teammates midfielder Eduard Atuesta (20) and forward Diego Rossi (9) after scoring against the FC Cincinnati during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Carlos Vela (10) kicks the ball for a goal against the FC Cincinnati during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  A Los Angeles FC fan cheers during the second half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC midfielder Josh Perez (18) looks for an open man against the FC Cincinnati during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  A Los Angeles FC fan cheers during the second half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  A Los Angeles FC fans chants during the second half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Carlos Vela (10) falls to the floor after kicking a goal against the FC Cincinnati during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC midfielder Josh Perez (18) kicks the ball past FC Cincinnati midfielder Frankie Amaya (24) during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC fans hold up a banner during the second half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC midfielder Josh Perez (18) attempts a goal against the FC Cincinnati during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Latif Blessing (7) is pushed into the air by FC Cincinnati midfielder Leonardo Bertone (6) during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC defender Walker Zimmerman (25) battles with FC Cincinnati forward Darren Mattocks (11) during the second half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Carlos Vela (10) comes down the pitch against the FC Cincinnati during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC defender Steven Beitashour (3) headers the ball during the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC head coach Bob Bradley (center) looks on during the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC supporters cheer on their team during the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC midfielder Mark-Anthony Kaye (not pictured) scores a goal against FC Cincinnati during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC defender Eddie Segura (4) brings the ball up the pitch during the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC midfielder Eduard Atuesta (20) goes after the ball against FC Cincinnati midfielder Kenny Saief (93) during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC starters pose for a portrait before the start of the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC held a moment of silence for murdered rapper Nipsey Hussle before the start of first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  FC Cincinnati head coach Alan Koch (center) reacts after a call goes against his team during the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the Los Angeles FC at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC forward Diego Rossi (9) maneuvers the ball past FC Cincinnati midfielder Allan Cruz (15) during the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Los Angeles FC Falconer Ken Miknuk holds up mascot Olly before the start of the first half of a Major League Soccer match between the Los Angeles FC and the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  Honorary Falconer rapper Stix walks Los Angeles FC mascot Olly out before the start of the first half of a Major League Soccer match at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  A Los Angeles FC fan chants before the start of the first half of a Major League Soccer match against the FC Cincinnati at Banc of California Stadium in Los Angeles, Calif. on Saturday April 13, 2019. Los Angeles FC defeated FC Cincinnati 2-0. (Photo by Raul Romero Jr, Contributing Photographer)
  ExpandGoals and stars make headlines, and through seven weeks of the Major League Soccer season no team deserves more attention than the Los Angeles Football Club and no player has earned more praise than Carlos Vela. 
The league’s top-scoring team led by the league’s top scoring player has simultaneously shut down opponents, and Saturday at Banc of California Stadium the Black & Gold leaned on its defenders and goalie Tyler Miller to remain unbeaten, securing a third consecutive shutout with a 2-0 victory over FC Cincinnati. 
The result in front of announced crowd of 22,323 keeps LAFC (6-0-1, 19 points) atop the Western Conference, three points clear of the Seattle Sounders, which has played one less match. 
LAFC captain Carlos Vela helped account for both scores, first with an assist in the 32nd minute off a corner kick that was headed into the net by midfielder Mark-Anthony Kaye. 
“The coaching staff do a good of how the opposition defend corners,” said Kaye, who picked up a glancing flick from defender Jordan Harvey and guided the ball into goal past the far post. “We knew there was a good area to get the ball in and if we had guys in that spot someone would get on the end of it.” 
In the final moments of the match Vela netted his eighth goal of the year from deep inside the box, pushing it past FCC keeper Spencer Richey to seal the win. 
The 30-year-old Mexican, who received player of the month honors in March, forced his way into the game against a physical and athletic opponent that sought to disrupt the flow of LAFC’s movement. 
That effort helped maintain Vela’s status as the league’s best player through the first month and a half of the season. 
“I’m trying to do my best to produce the most things possible every game,” Vela said. “I’m trying to be a good leader and a good teammate so I’m trying to do it all in the right moment and situation. I’m pushing myself. “I start really well this season but it’s long so I have to keep working.” 
Following a pair of record setting blowouts on the road in which it outscored the opposition 9-0 thanks in part to hat tricks by Vela and Diego Rossi — who entered the weekend with more combined goals than any team in MLS save their own — LAFC returned home to face the league’s newest club. 
“We know that most games are going to be a battle physically,” Kaye said. “Teams will get after us that way. … Today was a good test. It showed we can be gritty too.” 
FCC (2-3-1, 8 points) scratched and clawed while creating several chances that forced LAFC to scramble and recover more than it had to in its previous six contests. 
“When you play against a team like LAFC of course you will be exposed, and they did expose us at times,” said FCC head coach Alan Koch. “Collectively we did a good job of managing situations. They out-possessed us. They out-chanced us. But for the most part their chances weren’t too dangerous.” 
The visitors, outshot 22 to 7, held off LAFC’s relentless attack as best it could and nearly reached halftime tied 1-1. However a lunging save by Miller in the dying embers of the opening half preserved LAFC’s scoreless streak, which sits at 325 minutes following the final whistle. 
In its first season, LAFC earned a reputation as a team that would let points slip away late in games. 
Not so in 2019. 
“Every game comes down to making plays,” LAFC head coach Bob Bradley said. “You can have that mentality and if you give a ball away in the wrong moment or if you don’t finish a chance and let a team hang on there’s always the possibility that at the end something happens to go against you. That’s the nature of the game everywhere in the world. 
“Certainly the confidence and the mentality to finish games and find ways to win, I think that part is greatly improved because I think the players have taken it upon themselves to have that mentality every day.” 
FCC marked the first of three contests in nine days for LAFC, which faces its first midweek test of the season on Wednesday in Vancouver before an anticipated contest against the undefeated Sounders in Los Angeles next Sunday. 
 Get the latest news delivered daily!