Lamont Stephenson stands in court on April 15 for his first appearance. He pleaded not guilty to the 2014 murder of Olga DeJesus and her dog. (Steve Hockstein | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)By Sophie Nieto-Munoz | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com A New Jersey man who made his way onto the FBI Top Ten Most Wanted list appeared in court for the first time Monday morning to face charges in the 2014 killing of his fiancee and her dog in Newark.Lamont Stephenson, 44, pleaded not guilty to a murder charge in the death of Olga DeJesus, his 40-year-old fiancee, and her dog in Superior Court in Essex County. He was ordered held in the Essex County jail pending trial.Stephenson stood before Judge Ronald Wigler in a plaid button down shirt. He only spoke to say he understood the charges and was represented by public defender Deirdre McMahon.DeJesus’ family took up two rows of the courtroom. They shook their heads and cried when he pleaded not guilty.Family of Olga DeJesus shook their heads in disappointment as Lamont Stephenson pleaded not guilty in connection to her murder. (Steve Hockstein | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)Stephenson was arrested in Prince George’s County, Maryland in March after more than four years on the run.First responders found DeJesus and her dog asphyxiated inside her apartment in the Stephen Crane Village housing project on Oct. 17, 2014. While the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office charged him with murder less than a month after her body was found, detectives were unable to find him.These are New Jersey's most wanted fugitives Eight suspects that State Police are actively seeking. Stephenson was added to the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitive list in October 2018, after the FBI wanted to raise the stakes and “increase the likelihood of finding him,” Acting Essex County Prosecutor Theodore N. Stephens II said at the time.He was on the run from the FBI as a wanted fugitive for 147 days before the arrest. He was caught by local authorities after they responded to a 2 a.m. call of a suspicious person in an Enterprise truck in Lanham, Maryland.He told officers he was homeless and “just trying to get out of the weather," but later told police he was wanted in New Jersey for murder and that he had also committed a crime in Washington D.C. that week, local authorities said.According to the Washington Post, he allegedly stabbed his girlfriend Natina Kiah to death, along with her cat. The pair had reportedly only known each other for two weeks.Authorities have said both killings could be related to domestic violence issues.Stephenson is expected back in court on June 10.Sophie Nieto-Munoz may be reached at snietomunoz@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her at @snietomunoz. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tipsGet the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy © 2019 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of New Jersey On-Line LLC.Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.   Ad Choices  