By Marlene Lenthang For Dailymail.com  Published: 14:48 EDT, 15 April 2019  |  Updated: 08:19 EDT, 16 April 2019   1View  commentsShots were reportedly fired in an alleged drive-by shooting at California rapper YG's Coachella after-party following his earlier performance.The Big Bank rapper performed on the Coachella stage on Sunday night where he paid tribute to his close friend LA rapper Nipsey Hussle who was murdered two weeks ago. He also used his stagetime to diss fellow rapper Tekashi 69.After his set YG hosted an after-party at the HITS Desert Horse Park. Cops got a call around 2am that gunshots had been fired early Monday morning, according to TMZ. Witnesses told cops that they saw someone driving past the party firing multiple rounds. YG pictured above during his Coachella performance Sunday Cops received a call around 2am on Monday morning reporting a drive-by shooting at the YG party held at HITS Desert Horse Park Cops found no victims or evidence of a shooting but witnesses said that three gunshots rang out from a passing car Cops arrived on the scene but found no victims or evidence that a shooting had taken place.Police officers later shut down the party to investigate the premises.'We were leaving, it was around 1:45 AM and I was in the car smoking. Out of nowhere, we hear 3 gunshots, and then everyone just starting running like crazy,' reported a writer for Hot New Hip Hop who was at the event. 'It was a stampede. The party was packed too,' they added. As of Monday police had no suspects in the case.  The party was hosted by YG's record label 4Hunnid and included sets by DJs Sean G and Drewbyrd of Shabbaaa Sound System. Tickets for the party were reportedly being sold for around $70. Reports of the shooting come two weeks after the death of LA rapper Nipsey Hussle. The party was held here at HITS Desert Horse Park near Indio, California The shooting reports come two weeks after the death of LA rapper Nipsey Hussle, who was a friends of YG. The two are pictured above at a Lakers game in 2016YG pictured above speaking at Hussle's Celebration of Life memorial service on April 11Amazing tribute to #NipseyHussle by YG at Coachella just now. Showed an animated Nipsey floating up to Heaven and being greeted there by Tupac. Wow! Epic, emotional moment. #RIPNipsey #RIPNipseyHussle #Tupac @YG pic.twitter.com/t8iaensf0oYG spoke at Hussle's Celebration of Life memorial service last week and was an honorary pallbearer at the funeral.The rapper also dedicated his set to Hussle, one of his close friends.'We lost one of the greats. A legend. Black Jesus - yeah, I said it,' he said, wearing a vest with Hussle's image on it.During the performance he called for a moment of silence to remember Hussle as images of the slain rapper ascending to heaven took over the screens.YG hasn't commented or posted about the reported shooting. Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group