Get Ready For Simpler, Better, & More Curated Shopping Experience.After waiting for close to two years, the finale of the most-watched show on the face of the Earth, 'Game Of Thrones', is finally dawning upon us in less than 48 hours. Who gets the throne? What happens to the Night King? Does Arya finally find any happiness? Will Khaleesi's dragons survive the battle? These are just a few of the numerous questions we need answers to. It's quite possible that all your GOT nerd friends started way in advance and have probably caught up and brushed up their GOT knowledge, while others are now trying to connect the dots and read online summaries. However, fret not because we have the recaps for all the seasons ready for you right here, so just spare some time and go through them:1. Season 1- This was all about the Stark family, the patriarch's murder, little Sansa growing up and Khaleesi marrying Khal Drogo amongst other things.   2. Season 2- Tyrion becomes the hand of the King, Theon reunites with Yara, Khaleesi ventures into the house of the undying and we spot the army of White Walkers.  3. Season 3- Joffery falls for the beautiful Margaery, Tywin Lannister tries his hand at match-fixing Tyrion and Cersei for his own good, and we finally see the dark side of Mellisandre, and the horror of the Red Wedding dawns upon us.  4. Season 4- This rollercoaster season is mostly about Ramsay torturing Theon like there's no tomorrow, Tyrion is betrayed by Shae, and Joffrey dies at his own wedding.  5. Season 5- King Tommen marries Margery, Baelish starts travelling with Sansa towards Winterfell, the High Sparrow wreaks havoc, and poor Shireen is burned alive followed by the shocker of Jon Snow getting stabbed to death as well  6. Season 6- Jon is back, King Tommen takes his own life, Bran Stark is being enlightened by his own new found wisdom, we lose the poor Hodor as well.  7. Season 7- Khaleesi loses her dragon to the Night King, The Wall has been smashed, Jon Snow and Khaleesi have apparently fallen in love and Cersei is pregnant with Jaime, who is now leaving her side. The season ended on a gritting note and obviously, the battle for the throne begins now! So, there you go. You're all brushed up and prepared for the ultimate showdown. Let the finale begin!Mensxp Shop Arriving SoonBest thing you would've done this year. We'll keep you posted!