The government had said that there was no hand of CPM in the murders. 
      Published: 13th  April 2019 04:43 AM  |  
      
         Last Updated: 13th  April 2019 04:43 AM

  |  A+A A- Rahul Gandhi consoling the families of slain Youth Congress workers Sarath Lal at Kalliyot, Periya, in Kasargod| File PhotoKASARGOD: By seeking an adjournment, the state government has made clear its intention to ‘vehemently oppose’ the plea for a CBI probe into the murder of Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sarath Lal PK, said Congress leader and senior lawyer CK Sreedharan. The state wants a senior counsel to appear on its behalf in the case and that is a giveaway, he said.If the CPM and the state government were sincere in their condemnation of the murders, they should not have opposed the prayer of the family for a CBI probe and dragged the case, he said.ALSO READ| No evidence to prove CPM role: Government to court on Kerala Youth Congress leaders murderLast Sunday, veteran Congress leader AK Antony urged the Chief Minister not to oppose the plea ‘if the CPM and the government had nothing to hide’.  “If you oppose the petition, people will understand that the CPM and the Chief Minister are trying to protect the culprits,” he had said after meeting the family members of the Kripesh and Sarath Lal at Kalliyot.Sarath Lal’s father Sathyanarayanan said the state government was using taxpayers’ money to ‘deny us justice’. “In Shuhaib’s case, the state government invested `22 lakh on expensive lawyers to oppose CBI probe. It is taking a similar stance to deny us justice,” he said.To be sure, police have arrested nine persons, mostly CPM workers and one CPM member, in connection with the double murder. The CPM member has since been expelled from the party. Sathyanarayanan alleged the Crime Branch was trying to turn the murders into a case of personal enmity rather than political killings to save the skin of the CPM leadership. “There are too many pieces of evidence to suggest that there was a conspiracy behind the crime. Only the CBI will be able to unravel it.”O
    P
    E
    NDisclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the newindianexpress.com editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.The views expressed in comments published on newindianexpress.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not represent the views or opinions of newindianexpress.com or its staff, nor do they represent the views or opinions of The New Indian Express Group, or any entity of, or affiliated with, The New Indian Express Group. newindianexpress.com reserves the right to take any or all comments down at any time.  JKLF chief Yasin Malik on hunger strike against NIA custody  Talks with IMF for bailout package to start soon: Pakistan Finance Advisor to PM Imran Khan  Manchester City gain Spurs revenge to remain in control of title race  Democrats in US House demand release of full Mueller report amid impeachment call  LS polls 2019: AAP Kerala to back LDF, suspends state convener who announced support to Congress  Air India can hire Jet's co-pilots, not 'costly Captains': IPGCopyright - newindianexpress.com 2019The Morning Standard | Dinamani |  Kannada Prabha |  Samakalika Malayalam | Indulgexpress  |  Edex Live  |  Cinema Express |   Event Xpress  Contact Us |  About Us |  Careers | Privacy Policy |  Search |  Terms of Use |  Advertise With Us  Home |  Nation |  World |  Cities |  Business |  Columns |  Entertainment |  Sport |  Magazine |  The Sunday Standard  