April 13, 20199:00 PM EDTLast UpdatedApril 15, 20193:39 PM EDTPostmedia’s journalists were honoured 10 times Saturday at the 65th annual Ontario Newspaper Awards, taking home awards for their memorable video and photography, provocative commentary and searing, in-depth reporting.The Windsor Star earned three of those 10 ONAs. That Star’s Dax Melmer was a two-time winner, named Photojournalist of the Year for capturing a stunning image of a six-year-old Karma Jariett’s face after she was mauled by a pit bull while at a sleepover. The photo also won the prize for feature photography for newspapers with circulation over 25,000.The Star’s third ONA went to Dan Janisse for sports photography, for recording the moment one high school soccer player’s foot connected with another’s face.Jonathan Juha of the Stratford Beacon Herald also won two ONAs, one for feature photography at a paper with circulation under 25,000 for a photograph of an annual parade of swans, and the second for feature writing at a small newspaper. His win in this category recognized his work revisiting a 2012 crash in Hampstead, Ont. that killed 11. Juha located the families of all the victims, though many lived in Peru, and, per the ONA judges, “assembled a compelling, sensitive and empathetic account of changed lives.”“The winners of these awards demonstrate the high quality of journalism that is being practised in communities in Ontario,” said Lucinda Chodan, Postmedia’s vice-president, editorial. “They also show how important this kind of journalism is to those communities.”The awards, handed out annually for the best work among dozens of newspapers across the province, were presented at a gala ceremony at Postmedia Place in Toronto, with over 100 journalists in attendance.Other Postmedia journalists recognized Saturday included Rick Gibbons of the Ottawa Sun, honoured for his columns and opinion writing. Judges praised the veteran radio executive and former newspaper publisher for his deeply felt understanding of the capital and its people, and his willingness to use his standing to challenge his audience.A shot of an Ontario Hockey League player controlling the puck with his stick even while flying through the air earned the Sarnia Observer’s Mark Malone the ONA for sports photography at a newspaper with circulation under 25,000. The judges called Malone’s work “the kind of image rarely seen from the hockey rink.”Scott Dunn of the Owen Sound Sun Times picked up the ONA for spot news writing at a paper with circulation under 25,000. After local police charged a Wiarton resident with murder, Dunn dug deep into the accused’s background and his life in the community. His “initiative and persistence paid off in a heart-wrenching story about a death that shook a small town,” the judges wrote.The Brantford Expositor’s Brian Thompson witnessed the pain and raw emotion on the face of a relative of one of three Six Nations residents murdered last November, making an image that saw him recognized with the ONA for spot news photography at a newspaper with circulation under 25,000. The ONA judges praised the photograph for how it “dramatically underscored” the national tragedy of missing and murdered Indigenous women.And the London Free Press team of Jennifer Bieman, Cheryl Chute, Robin Harvey and Patrick Maloney took home the ONA for video production, honoured for an ambitious project that blended data, archival photos, historical documents and contemporary photography to bring to life the stories of the London area’s final casualties of the First World War. The Hamilton Spectator and the Waterloo Region Record led all papers with four ONAs each. The St. Catharines Standard’s Grant Lafleche was named journalist of the year for more than 50 stories over the course of 2018 that exposed a political conspiracy to influence the hiring of the top bureaucrat for Niagara Region. The ONA judges cited Lafleche’s “perseverance, troublemaking and … wholesale commitment,” as he built a network of confidential sources, dug through troves of documents, stood up to false allegations of unethical conduct and filed stories that triggered an ongoing investigation by the Ontario Ombudsman.“This is the kind of reporting that is absolutely integral to democracy,” the judges said.CORRECTION: This story has been updated to include the ONA given to the Sarnia Observer’s Mark Malone.We want to improve your reading experiencePostmedia is pleased to bring you a new commenting experience. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. Visit our community guidelines for more information.