A MAN is suing his parents for more than £60,000 after they destroyed his enormous stash of porn.The bloke from Michigan in the US – identified only as “Charlie” – left his parents’ house in August 2017 after living with them for 10 months.They drove to his new place in Indiana a few months later to hand over his belongings, with one item missing. Charlie says his parents told him they had destroyed his entire porn collection – 12 boxes full of adult films – in a lawsuit filed last week. He then called the Ottawa County Sheriff’s Office, filing a police report and placing the value of his collection at $28,940 (£22,081).  Charlie is now suing his parents for $86,222 (£65,780) in damages after failing to get the prosecutor’s office to press charges. They allegedly wrote in an email: “We counted twelve moving boxes full of pornography plus two boxes of sex toys as you call them."We began that day the process of destroying them and it took quite a while to do so."According to court documents, Charlie replied to his dad: "If you had a problem with my belongings, you should have stated that at the time and I would have gone elsewhere."Instead you choose to keep quiet and behave vindictively." “We counted twelve moving boxes full of pornography plus two boxes of sex toys”His dad then reportedly wrote back: "Believe it or not, one reason for why I destroyed your porn was for your own mental and emotional health."I would have done the same if I had found a kilo of crack cocaine. “Someday, I hope you will understand.”Charlie was earlier kicked out of school for selling porn to other students, his dad claims. He allegedly sent one police officer another 44 emails but they again refused to file charges. PAEDOPHILE football star Adam Johnson’s £2million new mansion is close to one of the region’s busiest dogging sites.BRITAIN’S top military academy has been rocked by a string of scandals, with 10 instructors rapped for criminal behaviour.THE brother of a Harry Potter star was one of two men found dead on train tracks in east London.Copyright ©2019 Express Newspapers. "Daily Star" is a registered trademark. All rights reserved.