Odessa Carey, 73, was found dead in her Ashington homeHidden from view down a long back road, even Ashington locals might not have known of Links View's existence this time last week.But over the past seven days, the usually quiet cul-de-sac was put firmly on the map when it became the centre of a dramatic murder probe.Police were called to the North Seaton street on Monday afternoon, where 73-year-old Odessa Carey was found dead in her home.Shortly after officers arrested a woman in Guide Post on suspicion of murder.Within hours of the drama unfolding, social media was awash with rumours about the death, prompting a police plea for restraint and respect.And as Odessa's home became a crime scene, with forensics officers searching inside, a steady stream of locals travelled to the street to find out what was going on.A 35-year-old woman, believed to be the alleged victim's daughter and also called Odessa Carey, has now appeared in court charged with murder.And today as searches at the scene continue, we look back on the case so far.How the drama unfolded:Police were called to Links View on Monday afternoon. Residents told the Chronicle somebody had reported that they were concerned about Odessa because the mobility scooter she used to get around had been parked in her back garden for a number of days.Officers could be seen trying to get inside her semi-detached home.  When they did her body was found.One neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: "It looks like a murder scene. Today I was just watching it. I seen all the police cars come round.“At first just a couple of cars came and they were trying to get in the house. Someone apparently made a phone call to say they were concerned about her. Apparently her mobility scooter had been in the garden all week.”Meanwhile a crowd of onlookers watched on as armed police surround a property on Morpeth Close in Guide Post.A 35-year-old woman was arrested at 5.20pm.Odessa's home was cordoned off with police tape. Later on Monday evening forensics officers arrived at the house.As rumours surrounding the death began to circulate on social media a number of people came to Links View, either by car or on foot to see what was going on.Derek Hall, who lives on Sea View, which backs onto the street, came to see what was going on.The 32-year-old said: “I have lived round here for five years. It’s such a quiet estate. It’s usually dead quiet. "I heard what had happened on the Chronicle’s Facebook and came to have a look."It’s Ashington. Anything could have happened.”Police could be seen searching various locations around Ashington throughout the week. On Tuesday a water search team and dogs were at the River Wansbeck in Sheepwash.Then on Wednesday morning searches were being carried out at allotments off Woodhorn Road. Later that day the Chronicle revealed the identity of the alleged murder victim as Odessa Carey.That evening Northumbria Police confirmed that Odessa Carey junior had been charged with murder.She appeared before South East Northumberland Magistrates Court on Thursday morning. The case was sent to Newcastle Crown Court where she appeared on Friday.The victim:Neighbours have described Odessa Snr as as friendly woman, who loved gardening and animals.They said they believed she had a son and a daughter.Karen Coupland, 59, who lives opposite said: “She was really nice. She loved her animals, and liked a chat. "I think she’s got more than one dog. I think she’s got cats and dogs. She loved her garden and I’m a passionate gardener as well.“I think she was a cancer survivor as well. She was very chatty, sometimes it was hard to get away from her.”Annie Hart, who lives on Links View, said the woman had a son and a daughter.The 57-year-old said: “She was a very quiet lady, especially for the last couple of years. Her whole family used to camp by the river though, and there was always a lot of people there.“I know she’s got a son and a daughter. She used to go to the Elephant for a drink. She had cancer and her mobility had got bad. Her son used to come up and take her out in the wheelchair.”She added: “She was very, very friendly. She always used to chat whenever I saw her.”Several bouquets of flowers have been placed outside Odessa's home.The street:Situated down a long back road off Newbiggin Road, links view is a small cul-de-sac made-up of mainly semi-detached homes.Residents said it was was a quiet street, but one where everyone knows one another.Annie said: "It has been such a shock. Nothing happens round here. It’s absolutely lovely. In the summer everyone has barbecues. Some people have been ringing me to check I’m OK."And Karen added: "I just feel like I've got butterflies in my stomach all the time. This is a very quiet street. Everybody knows everybody. It’s just so sad.”While Jane Walker, 50, said: "It’s absolutely terrible. We have just got new neighbours and I was just saying to them, I have been here over four years and we have had no bother whatsoever. It’s such a shame." What have police said:As investigations got underway, police became increasingly concerned about speculation on social media.On Tuesday morning the senior investigating officer, Det Chief Insp Dave Cole took the unusual step of appealing to the public to thinking about what they were posting.He said: "Our thoughts are with the family of the deceased at this extremely difficult time and they are currently being supported by specialist officers. “We are aware of rumour and speculation circulating on social media about the case and would ask that people respect the privacy of the family and refrain from posting inappropriate comments which could lead to further distress. We would also remind people that this is a live investigation and such speculation about the details of the case is extremely unhelpful. “Our officers will be carrying out patrols in the area and anyone with concerns, or anyone who thinks they might have information about this incident is asked to speak with them.”On Friday searches were still going on at the home, and a Northumbria Police spokesman said they expected to be finished by the end of the weekend. The investigation so far:Odessa Carey Jnr made her first appearance at Newcastle Crown Court on Friday via video-link from HMP Low Newton, in Durham.Blonde-haired Carey replied: “I am” when asked to confirm her name, gave her date of birth and said her nationality was British.Prosecutor Jolyon Perks told the court: “This defendant is currently remanded in custody in relation to an allegation of murder.”Carey will be back in court in May for a plea and trial preparation hearing and a provisional trial date was set for October 2, with a time estimate of at least 10 days.There was no application for bail and Carey was further remanded in custody.Judge Paul Sloan QC told her: “I’m going to adjourn your case to a further pre-trial hearing listed on May 9 when you will be linked into this court as you have been today.“Pending that hearing, you will be remanded in custody. I anticipate your legal team will be through to see you at Low Newton before the next hearing.”Carey, of no fixed address, is accused of murdering Odessa Carey Snr, at Links View between April 3 and April 8.