It looks like science in our area schools is in danger of taking a leap back 50 years or more, as former Constitution Party leader Lora Hubbel filed paperwork to run for the Sioux Falls School Board.Of course, Lora being Lora, the day after receiving her certification for the ballot, Hubbel launched into a rant disagreeing with decades of pediatric medicine, throwing out an anti-vaxxer canard about “vaccine death,” and wildly claiming that children who die from SIDS (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome) are because their parents were drinking or on drugs:(A few years back Hubbel had also claimed in a press conference that sleeping children on their backs made them more susceptible to government telling them what to do. Seriously.)The deadline for running for School Board was this past Friday.Also turning in petitions to run in the School Board race for two open seats are Carly Reiter, Nan Baker, and Sara AndersonShe will kill them on school board issues. Keep recess, music and arts. Put teachers and students first. Cut from the top down, not the bottom up.I’m sure she’ll demand a return to tradition in instructing students in alchemy.I don’t generally agree with Tara, but she is spot on with how education issues should be addressed.Well thank you Springer. I appreciate that.I know who I won’t be voting for.Probably a Common Core supporter of fed ed.or somebody who understands “shortfall” is one word.Well Lora is a Conservative. She will watch your money  while providing for the best interests of the students and teachers. No more Fed ed programs. Let the teachers teach.Laura is unfit for public service. Her crackbrained stances and general behaviors show that.Facts please.Well I think we can go with the quote above:‘Having babies sleep in their backs CAUSES suffocation or “SIDS”‘ – No, just no.  The stupid in that statement burns.  The American Society of Pediatricians says she’s wrong.  The AMA says she’s wrong. The Mayo Clinic says she’s wrong.  Statistics says she is WRONG. She is Wrong.  Since the guidance to have babies sleep on their backs SIDS rates have fallen.  1990 – 130/100,000 births.  By the year 2000 it was around 60/100,000 births.  Today it’s around 40/100,000.  If Back sleeping was causing SIDS Why did the numbers DROP after the AMA introduced their ‘Back To Sleep’ program between 1992 and 1996?  “Plus it’s not always sleep issues…sometimes its vaccine death.” – This statement in and of it self is such a crackpot idiot statement that it beggars the belief.  There have been studies on hundreds of thousands of kids.  SIDS deaths among vaccinated and unvaccinated populations are nearly identical. This is an example of one of two things:
1) Either she is a victim of the Dunning-Kruger effect to such a level that she thinks that her ignorance and a few hours of google are equal to multiple PhD’s and studies with thousands of people involved.  It isn’t.
2) She thinks that there is some kind of huge international conspiracy that is suppressing evidence.  Ignoring the fact that Dr’s kids die of SIDS.  As do rich and powerful people’s kids.  Unless somehow she thinks that there are tens of thousands of people worldwide who would sacrifice their children for…what?  What EXACTLY would they be doing this for? One of these two she’s dangerously ignorant, the other she’s paranoid and delusional.  And it’s arrogance like this that has caused the re-emergence of measles and the associated deaths that come with it.
I don’t care what other good she might do.  This statement she made could kill kids.  Giving her a bigger public platform where she could be given a larger audience, even if just on her personal social media, is dangerous, short sighted and will cause more preventable deaths of children.THAT would be and example of the ‘Crackbrained stance and behavior’ that would disqualify her from public service.So you are another fed ed common core person that want’s to stifle teachers?remember when teachers taught that racism was ok because it was cultural? Just because you’re a teacher, doesn’t mean you’re a competent teacher.My dear now departed friend Lee McManus from SF got Polio as a child.  It luckily only affected one leg permanently.  Another older friend from Eureka also now departed had both legs affected. Had this horrible disease settled in higher in the chest area they both could have lived their lives in an “Iron Lung”!  Anyone promoting going back to a time when little children could develop a disease potentially putting them in an “Iron Lung” for the rest of their natural lives really should not be setting public policy.Charlie, if you are vaccinated, you have nothing to worry about.Thats his point… Tara… please just stop posting about public health issues. or go back to dumping things in ponds.Apparently now I’m ‘libeling’ Lora.I’m not sure how you libel someone with their own words?  If she doesn’t like reading her words, maybe she shouldn’t type them?Tara what would Lora do with as a board member if photos of kids at school events had a reflection from their eyeballs like she claims are sign of demonic possession?Critical and creative thinking. Let kids think for themselves and be problem solvers. Research all sides.We also might have to ask her if she will institute a policy to ban “heart attack” guns from school campuses?Lol…….Pat I am a certified mediator and I would be willing to do an in kind mediation session for you and Lora.What certification board gave you any mediation rights? Please seriously tell us so i may file a complaint. I can use any of your postings here to show how unfit or mediation you are.This might be the mic drop statement…Lora’s post on “Brain Eating Nanobots Being Put in Vaccines” might be the topper. Parent’s need to do their research and make sure vaccines are used very conservatively. Moderation is the key. I have never gotten a flu shot and never will.Hope you never need chemo.I wouldn’t take it. I saw grandparents and parents die from it. Lora can tell you about chemo. She was diagnosed with cancer and would not take it.Very sorry about your friends, Charlie. There has been tremendous advancements in medicine and treatments for diseases since you were a child. Recently, a 6yo boy was cut on his family’s farm and they choose to treat him at home, but it was not enough and he developed tetanus. I’d imagine if this happened decades ago the boy would’ve died, today he is alive.Today’s vaccines and the recommended schedule is very different from even when I (GenX) received them. What Lora and many others seem to be “promoting” is people to question what’s going on with today’s vaccines. Something is happening and it’s frightening. Autism, other learning disabilities and allergies are drastically rising, why? I didn’t know one person with Autism or peanut allergies when I was going through school. Why is the public forbidden from suing the pharmaceutical companies when something goes wrong? Why no studies on the effects for some vaccines? Why not Titer tests before vaccinating? You don’t question these matters, it’s not troubling to you? You’re against what Lora “promotes”, but where are your comments about  unvaccinated illegal aliens coming into our country bringing diseases into our communities, our schools? How about the opioid epidemic, you willing to push back on doctors who didn’t take precautions when prescribing addictions to pain pills?I’d encourage you to watch the documentary ‘Vaxxed’, but from what your comment suggests it’d be similar to asking a pro-abortion advocate to watch ‘Unplanned’.Vaxxed is not a documentary. It is crackpot fiction. It relies on utterly debunked and discredited research from the equally debunked and discredited British doctor who also directed the film.Vaccines have nothing to do with Autism Spectrum Disorder, and crap like this doesn’t help kids with Autism. The disorder has everything to do with genetics. Why are incidents of Autism going up? They may not necessarily be. What we do have are better identification and diagnostic tools. And even the term “Autism” is a bit outmoded, as it is actually known as Autism Spectrum Disorder or (ASD). ASD describes a range of conditions and behaviors rather than a single disease.Far more complicated than a propaganda film or Jenny McCarthy or some other idiot bleating that vaccines gave their kids Autism.This is the part where anti-vaxxers claim the Doctor was discredited because he “exposed the truth” and not because of trash methodology that led him to reach a conclusion he already made beforehand.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_WakefieldI am with you. Unfortunately, Occam’s Razor doesn’t seem to exist to some people. Rather than believe a doctor with a financial interest in his claims fudged his report and that is why no studies have been able to reproduce his results, they choose to believe a MASSIVE CONSPIRACY driven by BIG PHARMA that sweeps across nations, the internet, literally everywhere, is easier to believe.Wikipedia? That source is so manipulated teachers warn students of using it as a reference. E. Michael Jones was erased from Wikipedia and a Greenpeace founder was deleted too. That’s where you get your information, that’s who you trust?If you don’t like Wikipedia, how about the minutes from his fitness to practice hearing where he lost his license to practice medicine?https://www.nhs.uk/news/2010/01January/Documents/FACTS%20WWSM%20280110%20final%20complete%20corrected.pdfhttps://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3136032/Good enough for ya?https://www.bmj.com/content/342/bmj.c5347How about that? Does that work? The sad part is: I know it doesn’t matter how many reputable sources I post, people will still stick their heads in the sand.Keep an open mind folks…..study both sides of the issues. Do your own research. Thanks.It’s appalling that so many people would rather listen to celebretards than to their own pediatricians who are vaccinating their own children and grandchildren. Ask your healthcare provider, “if this were YOUR child, what would you do?” The pediatricians are getting their own kids vaccinated. That should be all you need to know.Dr. William Thompson, CDC Senior Scientist is not a celebrity.Ask your nurse and doctor what’s in any vaccine, chances are high they do not know. The ingredients certainly aren’t listed for you to review when you go to the doctor’s office. Just take the shot, trust us and move on, that’s you. There was a renowned nurse commenting on previous posts who wasn’t aware that aborted fetal cells are being used to make the Rubella vaccine.Clearly there’s so much you are oblivious to.Aborted fetal cells are not used to make the rubella vaccine.
Aborted fetal cells were used to make the cell lines which grow the vaccine. The fetus involved was a female who was killed in 1962. The cells are all new.
Given that there are no ethical objections to receiving organs and tissues donated by murder victims, it’s hard to make the argument that nobody should have benefitted from that victim’s donated tissue. And none of the original cells are in anybody’s vaccines.Go with that all you want, it’s not the truth. In 1978, Dr. Stanley Plotkin started growing Rubella on aborted fetal cell lines. That sentence should be enough to get to started…“Aborted fetal cell LINES”Not aborted fetal cells, aborted fetal cell lines. You get more dead people’s DNA when your dentist puts a bone graft in your mouth.Just do the minimal on vaccinations and make sure you do your own research. Also, this is suppose to be about the school board race, so please research, google and you tube Lora Hubbel and find out where she stands on education.I am voting for a person, not one position. Her nutty statements are relevant because they speak to her thought processes and beliefs. I do not want that sort of person on the school board. Stop trying to divorce the things she says from her, Tara.Where does Lora stand on education? Well, she’s out on the fringes on everything else, so why would education be any different?I wouldn’t call this fringe…….Lora Hubbel shared a post.
16 hrs ·
Im on the ballot…we have great schools in Sioux Falls with a history of service and investment in our future. However there is a bit of a problem which caused me to jump in. We have beautiful buildings…which caused us to have a financial shortfall …so the solution bantered about is to cut fine arts!!! Im sure a conservative on the board can keep our focus where it needs to be…ON THE KIDS! Students need the 3 Rs, Art, Music, sports, recess, shop class, home living classes. If cuts are to be made it should be at the top….not the bottom. Recall SD was 49th in teacher pay but up there at 24th in Administration pay….AND when the state gives the school money, it goes to the Administration (who gets first dibs.)Your email address will not be published.Comment Name Email Website  Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email.