Today is April 15, tax day. You may hear on the radio today the immortal words of The Beatles' 1966 hit "Taxman," which conveyed what today was all about: "Should five per cent appear too small/Be thankful I don't take it all/'Cause I'm the taxman, yeah I'm the taxman," they sang. "If you drive a car, I'll tax the street, If you try to sit, I'll tax your seat. If you get too cold I'll tax the heat, If you take a walk, I'll tax your feet. Don't ask me what I want it for, If you don't want to pay some more."
Taxes, like death, were something that would always stalk us, Benjamin Franklin reminds us — although it took the federal government 124 years before individual incomes became a regular component of the tax code. Which led us to ponder why today is the day we pay. 
The dreaded 16th Amendment, which imposed income taxes, was ratified in February 1913 when Delaware became the 36th state to adopt it. Originally, according to Fortune, the idea was to set March 1 as the filing deadline. That was changed to March 15 in 1918, then moved back again in 1955, to April 15. Fortune noted the IRS explained that the extra time allowed it to spread out the workload for processing returns, which became necessary as the tax affected more middle-class families. 
For what's worth, Florida is one of a handful of states that never ratified the 16th Amendment. 
GARLAND: We salute Mark Brigman. Knights of Columbus St. Joseph Council 2505 in Lakeland recently presented Brigman an award for saving the life of a 6-month-old baby. According to the council, on the evening of Feb. 12 Brigman was cycling around Lake Hollingsworth near the Lakeland Yacht Club when encountered a young couple and the baby, who did not appear to be breathing. The couple seemed to be in shock. Brigman, once a Sheriff’s Office Explorer, performed CPR and a few minutes later the infant spit up water and started breathing again. The couple took the child and left, without Brigman learning more about them. The council would like more information about the family. They're asking that they, or anyone who knows them, contact Council 2505 at kofclakeland.org.
GIG: We gig the Alliance of American Football, the new professional football league that recently and unexpectedly folded. It's bad enough that the league's demise left players like Gionni Paul, a former linebacker at Kathleen High School who played for the AAF team in Salt Lake City and who suffered a fractured arm in a recent game, without paychecks and on the hook for medical bills from injuries sustained while playing. Last week reports indicated that the AAF, even though it's stopped playing, was not letting its players seek opportunities in the Canadian Football League, and had balked at letting some sign NFL contracts. 
GARLAND: We applaud Wenjo Lai of Lakeland Christian School, Caitlin Kaiser of Resurrection Catholic School and Grant Parker of Lakeland Highlands Middle School. They all placed second in the junior division during last month's Florida State Science and Engineering Fair, which hosted 950 participants. We also commend Allan Stewart and Connor McLoughlin, also of Lakeland Christian School, who garnered a fourth-place award and $150 each from the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Well done.
GARLAND: We cheer students at Bay High School in Panama City and city officials. Hurricane Michael destroyed their school and the country club where the students planned to hold their prom. So, city commissioners, supported by local businesses, approved a request to hold the prom in city park in downtown Panama City. Recovery is slow in the Panhandle, but kudos to these kids for not letting a lack of progress kill their spirit and desire to make things as normal as possible under tremendously difficult circumstances.
GIG/GIG: This might become a regular feature: We gig Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. Speaking in Los Angeles last month at a gathering of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, which has ties to Middle Eastern terrorist groups, Omar, who has been criticized recently for repeated anti-Semitic remarks, noted in reference to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks that her hosts' parent group was founded after that horrific day in recognition "that some people did something and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties." Yes, "some people" — 19 to be exact — did do "something" that day: they murdered 2,977 innocent Americans. We offer another gig to Omar's better known pal: New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. When Texas Republican Rep. Dan Crenshaw criticized Omar's comment as "unbelievable" on Twitter, Ocasio-Cortez tried to redirect the conversation to homegrown terrorists and shot back: "Why don’t you go do something about" terrorism? Crenshaw, a former Navy SEAL, lost in eye in combat in Afghanistan, the nation that provided a safe haven for the masterminds who sent "some people" to attack America. It's incomprehensible and inexcusable that sitting members of Congress, particularly one from New York City, can be dismissive of the greatest mass murder on American soil, or that Democrats running for president — such as Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Jay Inslee — can defend her remarks. Yet this is our world.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse OpinionOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							Sarasota Herald-Tribune  ~ 1777 Main St., Sarasota, FL 34236 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.