From MyFoxChicago: Students at Brunswick High School in Maryland are upset that a raffle for guns was used to support a party for the graduating seniors.The Frederick News-Post reports the Safe and Sane program at Brunswick High School raffled off guns in February. Tickets were $20 each for prizes that included hunting rifles and shotguns.Chasidy Plunkard is a volunteer parent coordinator who organized the raffle. She says volunteers sold about 250 of the 1,000 available tickets. Seven winning tickets were selected.Safe and Sane sponsors an alcohol-free party after graduation for high school seniors. Students said the decision to hold the raffle while promoting safety was counterintuitive.Plunkard says the fundraiser was handled legally, including not selling tickets to people under 18 years old and requiring background checks.According to the article from the Frederick News-Post, kids don’t want guns associated with schools. From their article:“I understand that not all guns kill people,” Donoghue said. “And I understand that the raffle may have had background checks in place. But I think just the idea of selling weapons when you’re talking about high schoolers and you’re talking about high schooler safety is ridiculous and is completely ignoring the bigger picture.”Abigail Rohmiller, a junior, said she was concerned with the fundraiser because it associates guns with her school. The association is troubling to her given the number of high-profile school shootings, such as the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in February 2018, she said.“At the same time we’re having to go through active shooter drills in school, we’re selling guns to raise money,” Rohmiller said. “What’s the message here? … There are tons of different ways to fundraise, and I don’t think we need to bring deadly weapons into the mix.”Shall we talk about the bigger picture?FACT: There were MUTIPLE system failures which led to the Parkland shooting: Broward Coward’s failure to properly respond, failing radio system, mismanagement of school safety funds, and – most noticeably – allowing the shooter to get away with criminal activities. Had those criminal activities been reported, he would not have been allowed to legally purchase a gun.FACT: Many shootings have been committed by kids under 18 – also known as prohibited possessors.  FACT: Firearms are not allowed on school properties.FACT: Mass public shootings keep occurring in gun-free zones: 97.8% of attacks since 1950. (Data from the Crime Prevention Research Center.)I understand why kids may be concerned that guns are associated with schools. The main reason for that is because criminals do not follow the law. And that progressives do not want to face reality.Maybe if school resource officers and teachers were armed, criminals would think twice about committing a school shooting as they would associate schools with guns that are used for safety, protection and self defense.DCGBetter than Drudge Report. Check out Whatfinger News, the Internet’s conservative frontpage founded by ex-military!There should be firearm safety courses taught in our schools. I worked around Veterans for 30 years (trained to use all kinds of weapons including full automatic) and there was only 2 times there was a shooting in our facility. Neither perp were Veterans. Both were convicted felons, with guns they bought illegally. One was an armed robber and the other was a jealous boyfriend. It’s my belief that when someone is taught gun safety, and made responsible for the person next to them and that person responsible for you, they know and understand the consequences for firing a gun.… Read more »They ignored the real fact: all recent mass shootings, and other events, can be shown to be hoaxes or false flags. It did take us a while to realize our government was capable and willing to conduct such things.Gun raffles are held for fundraisers for many organizations. Federal background checks are required with proper ID and a Form 4473 filed. Political correctness has run amok and kids freak over the thought of a gun. The Left is indoctrinating them well…“he would not have been allowed to legally purchase a gun.”
The operative word here as in all Mass Shootings (TM) is allowed. As in allowed to happen. If they even happen at all. Apparently some of them at least actually do. To think that my school had a rifle club and somehow we survived. If this generation of snowflakes gets any more sensitive they’ll be afraid to do anything but interact with the world through screensIF they were educated, they would know that guns in the hands of governments have murdered vastly more than those in the hands of the People. And IF they were educated, they would know that guns in the hands of the People are used many times more to protect and defend lives than those used criminally–according to the government’s own data. But they have been denied education in favor of indoctrination. But then, they don’t know that either.The wienies are ALWAYS “outraged” about something.  Whaaaa!  Crybabies!  What a bunch of wimps.  They like hearing the echo of their own screeching.  None of their “me too” programs make a lick of sense.  They have no right to demand others give up their rights.  Maybe it’s time for a “Shut Up and Get Away from Me” movement.  They should go check the tampon dispensers in the boy’s restroom.“I understand that not all guns kill people,” Donoghue said. “And I understand that the raffle may have had background checks in place. But I think just the idea of selling weapons when you’re talking about high schoolers and you’re talking about high schooler safety is ridiculous and is completely ignoring the bigger picture.”
   Yet it’s okay to teach SOCIALISM,the most unsustainable Government in History,in School. I KNOW these kids have brains-MOST can dress and feed themselves,some can even read and write…..Founded 12-23-2009. Burned down by WordPress 8-15-2018 with 63M hits. Resurrected 8-23-2018. DDOS attacks began 11-10-2018. Massive Spam attacks on 12-3-2018.