By Elizabeth ZavalaLaura Flores-Messick appears with attorney for her trial in the June 2017 death of Chason Montez DeOca.Laura Flores-Messick appears with attorney for her trial in the June 2017 death of Chason Montez DeOca.CaptionCloseLaura Flores-Messick appears with attorney for her trial in the June 2017 death of Chason Montez DeOca.Laura Flores-Messick appears with attorney for her trial in the June 2017 death of Chason Montez DeOca.A jury has found a San Antonio woman guilty of murder in the fatal shooting and stabbing of her boyfriend, a decorated Army veteran.It took the jury two hours and 45 minutes to find Laura Flores Messick guilty.Messick, who faces up to life in prison, has chosen to be sentenced by Judge Catherine Torres-Stahl. The date for the sentencing hearing hasn’t been set yet.Chason Montez DeOca was killed on June 10, 2017. His bloodied body was found in his home in the 7400 block of Muleshoe Lane on the West Side. The 40-year-old veteran had served in both Iraq and Afghanistan.Messick, 32,  was accused of killing him after the pair argued in his home. In a video interview conducted by a San Antonio police detective, Messick had admitted she shot DeOca and shortly after cut his neck to see if he was dead.On Friday, both sides rested their cases after hearing the chilling screams and cries from the victim’s mother, who testified about how she went to her son’s home after he did not return her calls and texts, and found him lying in a pool of his own blood.Related: Mother’s emotional testimony the last jury heard in murder trial of San Antonio woman accused of killing boyfriendTestimony established that DeOca likely was standing with his palm out because when the gun was fired, the bullet went through his palm and into his heart. In addition, his neck was cut from behind with a kitchen knife.In his closing argument Monday, prosecutor Thom Nisbet reminded the jury of all the evidence and testimony they have seen and urged jurors to find her guilty.“She let him die by her own admission,” Nisbet told the panel. “And, she’s not sorry. No remorse.”Referencing a phone call the defendant had with another person after the incident, Nisbet reminded the jury that Messick told the person she was “chillin’ and killin,” he said.“The word for that is murder,” Nisbet said.Defense attorney Edward Garza told the jury in his closing argument that his client and the victim had a history of situations where she and DeOca would fight, and he would block her path if she tried to leave. Garza said the incident also was an escalation to an altercation his client had with DeOca’s ex-wife, and that in the end, Messick did what she did because she was afraid and acted in self-defense.“It’s our position Chason took out a gun and she was trying to leave,” Garza told the panel. “Maybe he didn’t let her leave. He had a tendency of blocking her from leaving, placing her in fear.”Related: San Antonio woman on trial for murder allegedly shot boyfriend for being a ‘jerk’Referencing the emotional testimony of the victim’s mother, Rachel Montez DeOca on Friday, Garza told the jury that there’s no doubt his mother suffered a loss and is still grieving, but he urged them to look at the facts and not base their decision on sympathy.“There’s more than enough for you to consider she acted in self-defense,” Garza told the jury. “I ask that you find her not guilty.”In her closing argument, Talia Triesch recalled her opening statement when she said the case was not a “whodunit, but a how’d she do it.”She reminded the panel of the crime scene photographs that showed no struggle, except for that the victim, who dragged his body through his own blood down the hallway.“There’s no struggle in that house. No overturned furniture, no broken glass, no torn curtains,” she said. “He was no threat to her.”Elizabeth Zavala covers county and state courts in San Antonio. Read her on our free site, mySA.com, and on our subscriber site, ExpressNews.com. | ezavala@express-news.net | Twitter: @elizabeth2863