Law enforcement officers arrested one of two suspects in a West Memphis shooting on Saturday, according to a media release, one week after the men are accused of killing two people.Raheem Stackhouse, 23, surrendered at approximately 12:30 a.m. Saturday to officers with the Marion Police Department in southeast Arkansas, a media release from the West Memphis Police Department said. Stackhouse faces two charges of first-degree murder.On April 6, West Memphis police officers responded to a shooting call at 1808 E. Broadway, where one person was found dead, according to previous reports. A second person died after being transported to the Regional One Health Medical Center in Memphis.Officers from the West Memphis police; a U.S. Marshals task force; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives; and the Crittenden County sheriff’s office collaborated in finding Stackhouse, according to the release.Officers are still searching for 23-year-old Reginald Smith, the second suspect in the fatal shootings.Two charges of FIRST degree murder?He will be out in about 20 years.Stackhouse is a thug with a long line of Felony arrests in his short time of being an adult(no telling what his juvenile record looks like). The oddest thing in his record is the amount times that nolle prosequi or nolo contedere was the final disposition. One of these cases was an arrest for murder at age 20 and lots of terroristic acts. I know, “innocent until proven guilty”, but this scumbag definitely has created an arrest pattern of criminal conduct! At age 23 he has been arrested twice for murder!  Maybe this charge will stick and this fine southern gentleman can spend his remaining time behind a nice high wall. Copyright © 2019, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc.All rights reserved.This document may not be reprinted without the express written permission of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Inc.Material from the Associated Press is Copyright © 2019, Associated Press and may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and noncommercial use. The AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. All rights reserved.