AL.comFUNK YOUConcerts on the Dock's 11th year gets off on the good foot, with Quantaphonics. The local progressive funk combo's FAME Studios-recorded tune "Good Time" was one of AL.com's "50 Alabama songs from 2018 to know."Concerts on the Dock, 6 - 9 p.m. April 19, Lowe Mill, 2211 Seminole Drive, free admission, $5 parking, lowemill.net/concerts-on-the-dockPADDLE"Urban kayaking" returns, courtesy of clever nonprofit Downtown Huntsville Inc.Paddle The Canal 2019, 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. April 20, Big Spring Park, 420 Church St. N.W., free admission/General Paddle, $25 for "chip-timed" Elite Paddle, registration details paddlethecanal.eventbrite.comCONCERTI once asked Doobie Brothers singer/guitarist Tom Johnston which member of his band rolled the best joint, back in the day. "I think everyone was equally talented at that particular skill," Johnson said in that 2014 interview. "The name didn't come from the band anyway. We took it because we had these gigs to play and we didn't have a name. And it just never got changed." Know what else hasn't changed? The Doobies' '70s California-rock hits - "China Grove," "Black Water," "Jesus Is Just All Right," "Listen to the Music," etc. - remain awesome. The Doobie Brothers, 7:30 p.m. April 23, Von Braun Center Mark C. Smith Concert Hall, 700 Monroe St., $52 - $175 (plus applicable fees), ticketmaster.comALBUM RELEASEEchoes of Social Distortion grit and Johnny Cash twang can be heard in Jonny & The Black Frames' new album "Revolver Junkies." The band celebrates the release, with fellow Huntsville rockers The Go-Go Killers and Property as support acts.  Jonny & The Black Frames, 9 p.m. April 19, Maggie Meyers Irish Pub, 1009 Henderson Road N.W., $5, facebook.com/jonnyandtheblackframesNEW NOVELAn inmate escapes to embark on a killing spree, seeking revenge on the Southern lawyer he blames for putting him on death row, by murdering those closest to the lawyer. That's the basic premise for "The Final Reckoning." Set in North Alabama, this fourth and final novel in Huntsville author Robert Bailey's legal thriller series that began with 2015 tome "The Professor," is out April 23. To launch "Final Reckoning," Bailey will sign books and speak."The Final Reckoning" book launch, 6 - 8 p.m. April 23, Books-A-Million, 1001-7 Memorial Pkwy. N.W., books cost $16 (plus tax), robertbaileybooks.com
            Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our
            User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and
            Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18).
        
            © 2018  Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
            The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the 
            prior written permission of Advance Local.
        
Community Rules
            apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
        
Your California Privacy Rights


 Ad Choices
