Before we get to her new ABC drama, “The Fix,” let’s go deep into Chicago-area native Robin Tunney’s resume.As a teenager she worked as an expediter at Ann Sather, the Lakeview restaurant owned by her cousin, Tom Tunney.“I got fired. It’s really difficult to get fired from relatives,” Robin Tunney told the Tribune by phone from her home in the Los Angeles area. Her job was to “bring trays of food up to the second floor, and it would be thousands of plates up and down the stairs all day. I wasn’t really into it. The manual labor, it was a little bit — it was too much.”Tom Tunney — now the alderman of the 44th Ward — said Robin and her older sister, Susan, worked for him. He said Susan lasted a lot longer than Robin. “I probably fired (Robin) more than once actually,” he said with a laugh.Robin Tunney has a new job — far away from food service. She plays Los Angeles prosecutor Maya Travis on “The Fix,” a legal drama co-created by Marcia Clark, the lead prosecutor in the O.J. Simpson murder trial. Clark and Travis have similar backgrounds — Travis failed to successfully prosecute a black A-list movie star for double murder and dropped out of the public eye.When the actor is accused of killing his white girlfriend eight years later, Travis returns to L.A. to take the case. The series, which premiered last month, airs at 9 p.m. Mondays.“Introducing something new into the world is stressful. You really want everybody to like it, but I think people are enjoying it,” Robin Tunney said. “It’s created by women. Marcia Clark obviously created it. I think she and Liz (Craft) and Sarah (Fain) wrote a different kind of woman than a man would have. The character’s in her 40s, but she’s still vital.”Tunney — who wrapped “The Mentalist” in 2015 after seven seasons — said “The Fix” is her main project. She’s also been writing and focusing on raising her 2-year-old son Oscar.She said she did meet with producers about a reboot of “The Craft,” her 1996 teen witch cult hit.“They have a script. It’s going to be written and directed by an actress named Zoe Lister-Jones, and she is super talented and like a really interesting choice,” Tunney said.“‘The Craft’ was all about sort of like female empowerment. It wasn’t about getting the guy, and it was so unusual for the time. I’m so happy that it’s sort of become this seminal kind of movie. I’m happy they’re rebooting it because I think they want to make something that’s different. They’re not going to just like remake the same movie. I think they want to do it justice, and I think that’s amazing. It’s like the ultimate compliment.”Tom Tunney recalled his cousin’s success with “The Craft” and “Empire Records.” He said he hasn’t watched “The Fix,” but has heard good things about the show. He said he last saw Robin when she was here for the funeral for her mother, Kathleen, who died in August 2017.The actress — who attended Saint Ignatius College Prep before graduating from Carl Sandburg High School in Palos Township — said she visits Chicago a few times a year. She grows wistful when she talks about the city.“Now that I have a child, I feel like I’m robbing him of something that was a significant part of my childhood,” said Tunney, who said she has 36 first cousins. “I grew up with all my cousins. I was a part of a very big group. It was like a village, and my son doesn’t have that here.”Perhaps Oscar might work at Ann Sather one day? “Maybe Tom will be able to whip him into shape. He couldn’t do it to me,” she joked.tswartz@tribpub.comTwitter @tracyswartz'New Girl' alum and Chicago-area native Lamorne Morris talks BMO pitchman status, Jussie Smollett and Kurt Russell's 'biggest movie' »How 2 Chicago natives will spend their prize from the 'Jeopardy' all-stars tournament »Chicago-area native Denise Richards talks joining 'Real Housewives of Beverly Hills' cast »