Dear Call Box: There was an Old West gunfighter by the name of John Wesley Hardin who lived in Jacksonville until he was discovered by the Pinkertons. He was in the meat-cutting business, according to a book I have. You can find information about him by Googling, but can you tell the public more?R.C., JacksonvilleDear R.C.: John Wesley Hardin's life was colorful enough that it needed no embellishment. But when you Google him, you discover many inconsistencies in his story. Hardin was known for exaggerating or making up tales about himself. In his 1896 autobiography, written while he was in prison, he claimed credit for many deaths that cannot be corroborated outside his book.Some accounts say the notorious gunfighter killed 30 to 40 people. Others say the number was 11. Newspapers attribute 27 deaths to him.He was born in 1853 near Bonham, Texas, to a Methodist preacher. And yes, Hardin was named after John Wesley, founder of the Methodist church.Hardin was 14 or 15 when he notched his first kill, though he wrote that he tried to get help for the wounded man, who died three days later. He may or may not have killed another man for snoring. He later said the shooting was a case of self-defense and the man was a burglar who tried to make off with his pants.What followed were incidents of gambling, drinking, fighting and killing. Hardin was on the run from Texas when he fled to Florida. At various times, he was in Gainesville, Micanopy and Jacksonville going by the alias of J.H. Swain or James W. Swain.In his autobiography, Hardin said he was in Jacksonville with his wife and daughter from July 1875 to July 1876. One book said his son was born in their home on Pine Street (now Main) in Jacksonville in 1875. Yet other sources say the son was born in Texas.Hardin is said to have gone into the meat-slaughtering trade in Jacksonville, supplementing his income by gambling.He claimed to have been involved in the killing of two Pinkerton agents on the Florida-Georgia border sometime from April to November 1876 after a gunfight with a Pinkerton Gang who had been tracking him from Jacksonville. Newspaper accounts said this is “pure fiction” as the Pinkerton Detective Agency never pursued Hardin.It was alleged that in March 1876, Hardin wounded a man who tried to act as a mediator between him and another man. He also was said to have befriended a local law enforcement officer who became one of the few people to know his secret.In 1877 Texas Rangers and local authorities finally caught up with Hardin on a train in Pensacola, knocked him unconscious and arrested him. Hardin was tried for killing a deputy sheriff in Texas and in 1878, was sentenced to 25 years in Texas' Huntsville Prison. In 1879 Hardin and 50 other convicts were stopped within hours of successfully tunneling into the prison armory, according to Wikipedia. Hardin made several other attempts to escape.Eventually Hardin adapted to prison life, reading theological books, becoming superintendent of the prison Sunday school and studying law. His wife, Jane, died in November 1892 before he was released in February 1894.He was pardoned and passed the Texas bar exam. But his legal career never took off. He was living in El Paso when Constable John Selman Sr., a gunman and former outlaw, shot him in the back of the head at the Acme Saloon where he was playing dice in 1895. The two men had a heated argument earlier in the day. As Hardin lay dead on the floor, Selman shot him three more times.Selman stood trial for murder and claimed self-defense, resulting in a hung jury. Before he could be retried, Selman was killed in a shootout with a U.S. marshal in 1896 during an argument following a card game. More than a century later, the bullet that killed Hardin was auctioned off for $80,000.Hardin’s life, real or magnified, made him an Old West legend. He was mentioned in novels such as Larry McMurtry’s “Streets of Laredo.” Rock Hudson even played him in the 1953 film “The Lawless Breed.” Johnny Cash wrote and recorded a song about him titled “Hardin Wouldn’t Run,” and Bob Dylan named his 1967 album, “John Wesley Harding,” although he misspelled his name.Dear Call Box: Can you tell me what is going to be built on the property where the Boys Home used to be on University Boulevard near Jacksonville University?N.P., JacksonvilleDear N.P.: Jacksonville University purchased the 39 acres, which were immediately south of its campus, for about $3.3 million in 2014, according to a 2014 Times-Union story. As you know, the property was cleared and is now vacant.At the time of the purchase, a JU spokeswoman said the school had eyed the land for some time and its proximity made it a natural fit.As yet, there are no specific plans for the property, but it will be part of the university’s future long-term growth, said Laura Phelps, JU spokeswoman.“Right now we are focused on our current construction projects,” Phelps said, adding that the Welcome Center recently was completed and admissions offices have moved in.The center is between the J. Arthur Howard Administration and J. Henry Gooding buildings. The Haskell Co. is building the 12,000-square-foot, single-story project.Meanwhile, construction has been taking off just north of the campus, she said. A health science building is expected to open in early 2020 that will be a little more than 100,000 square feet, Phelps said.“I think it’s an exciting transformation for Arlington,” she said.Update: Two readers had contacted Call Box wanting to know if others remembered the long-demolished pool at McCoy Creek Boulevard and Stockton Street that they had fond memories of as children. R.C. Nasworthy, retired superintendent of parks management, said he had heard about the pool, but its remnants were long gone when he started with the city in 1962. Only a couple of pipes were left, Nasworthy said.We heard from several people who recalled the pool. One woman, who did not leave her name, said she was 88 now but remembered swimming there as a little girl.Lorraine Plummer, who is 91, said she knows it was in operation during the 1930s but does not know what happened to it after that. Her experience was with the shallow end. It was a great big cement pool that was well kept, nice to be in and featured a fountain where you could duck in and out of the spraying water, the Orange Park resident said. While enjoyable, there was just one problem.“To this day, I do not know how to swim,” she said.A retired banker said he recalled that the pool was at ground level, and the concrete had a light green color. While he doesn’t remember swimming there, he said he drove by it with his father many times.“I remember I was very impressed by it,” he said.Submit questions by calling (904) 359-4128, emailing sstrickland@jacksonville.com or mailing to Call Box, P.O. Box 1949, Jacksonville, FL 32231. Please include contact information. If you have a picture to offer with your question, feel free to send it.Sandy Strickland: (904) 359-4128
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse NewsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							The Florida Times-Union  ~ 1 Riverside Ave., Jacksonville, FL 32202 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service