Former NFL quarterback Peyton Manning is coming back to Disney’s ESPN+, hitting the road to revisit seminal moments in NFL history in 30-episode documentary series “Peyton’s Places.”In the series, the two-time Super Bowl champ with the Indianapolis Colts interviews former NFL players, coaches and other key figures about football history and its cultural impact. The series is part of ESPN’s celebration of the NFL’s 100th season, produced by NFL Films in collaboration with ESPN+.“Peyton’s Places” is slated to debut July 15 exclusively on ESPN+, the sports programmer’s streaming service. The series will be presented in five chapters, each comprising six episodes. In addition, ESPN and/or ABC will air special compilations, recapping each part after the full episodes debut on ESPN+. Part 1 will be available on ESPN+ on Monday, July 15, while parts 2–5 will debut in subsequent months through January 2020. “This is a journey through 100 years of history, visiting the people and places that have made the NFL what it is,” Manning said in a statement. “From throwing a football off a skyscraper to re-enacting the Immaculate Reception and running Elvis Presley’s football plays, every episode on ESPN+ will surprise even the most die-hard fan.”It’s the second ESPN+ series to feature Manning, after he collaborated last year with NFL Films and Kobe Bryant’s Granity Studios on an eight-episode NFL edition of the “Detail” sports analysis program, which airs exclusively on ESPN+.Manning, a five-time NFL MVP who played 18 NFL seasons (with the Colts and later the Denver Broncos) and passed for nearly 72,000 yards, also serves as one of the show’s executive producers.In this week’s edition of the Variety Movie Commercial Tracker, powered by the TV ad measurement and attribution company iSpot.tv, Annapurna Pictures claims the top spot in spending for the second week in a row with “Missing Link.” Ads placed for the animated film had an estimated media value of $5.91 million through Sunday for [...]SiriusXM wants to cater consumers without cars, or cars without compatible stereos, with a new $8 plan for mobile and in-home listening. Dubbed SiriusXM Essential, the plan offers access to 200+ channels featuring the network’s entire music programming, as well comedy, news and select sports channels. Consumers will be able to test the new plan [...]Robert Mueller is now a best-selling author. Book publishers’ forthcoming editions of the special counsel’s report zoomed to the top of the Amazon’s and Barnes & Noble’s lists of book best-sellers Friday. That comes a day after the report was publicly released, culminating the nearly two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election [...]YouTube has turned to one of its homegrown stars — technology vlogger Marques Brownlee, aka “MKBHD” — for its newest original series. The video platform has greenlit series “Retro Tech” featuring Brownlee, in which he’ll unbox and review vintage technology products that have defined pop culture. The show, slated to debut in December 2019, follows [...]Netflix is testing a button to play random episodes of select TV shows, the company confirmed Friday morning. “We are testing the ability for members to play a random episode from different TV series on the Android mobile app,” a Netflix spokesperson told Variety. “These tests typically vary in length of time and by region, [...]In terms of scope, production time and — very likely — budget, Netflix’s “Our Planet” is one of the most ambitious projects from the streaming service to date. Narrated by David Attenborough and made available worldwide on April 5, the goal of the eight-part series is to capture diverse habitats across the globe and highlight [...]YouTube touted a record-breaking audience for its exclusive live-streaming of the first weekend of the 2019 Coachella, with views nearly doubling over last year. And the Google-owned video giant is hoping for another big turnout this weekend as it will deliver live coverage of the desert music fest’s Weekend 2 for the first time. Over [...]
		© Copyright 2019 Variety Media, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Business Media, LLC. Variety and the Flying V logos are trademarks of Variety Media, LLC.		Powered by WordPress.com VIP
Access exclusive content© 2019 Penske Media Corporation