
					Posted by Charlotte Bryant on Apr 14th, 2019 // Comments off ValuEngine lowered shares of Hollysys Automation Technologies (NASDAQ:HOLI) from a sell rating to a strong sell rating in a research report sent to investors on Wednesday morning, ValuEngine reports.A number of other research analysts also recently weighed in on HOLI. BidaskClub upgraded shares of Hollysys Automation Technologies from a hold rating to a buy rating in a report on Tuesday, April 9th. TheStreet downgraded shares of Hollysys Automation Technologies from a b- rating to a c+ rating in a report on Wednesday, December 26th. Finally, JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded shares of Hollysys Automation Technologies from an overweight rating to a neutral rating and cut their price target for the company from $26.00 to $23.00 in a report on Tuesday, April 9th. Two equities research analysts have rated the stock with a sell rating, one  has issued  a hold rating and two have given a buy rating to the company’s stock. The stock  has a consensus rating of Hold and an average price target of $25.00.Shares of NASDAQ:HOLI opened at $19.49 on Wednesday. The firm has a market cap of $1.16 billion, a price-to-earnings ratio of 10.95 and a beta of 1.40. Hollysys Automation Technologies has a 12-month low of $16.00 and a 12-month high of $27.85.  Several institutional investors have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. Geode Capital Management LLC raised its holdings in shares of  Hollysys Automation Technologies by 1.9% during the 4th quarter. Geode Capital Management LLC now owns 49,945 shares of the industrial products company’s stock valued at $874,000 after purchasing an additional 915 shares in the last quarter.  Advisors Asset Management Inc. raised its holdings in  Hollysys Automation Technologies by 4.4% in the 4th quarter. Advisors Asset Management Inc. now owns 27,040 shares of the industrial products company’s stock worth $473,000 after acquiring an additional 1,149 shares during the period.  Ramsey Quantitative Systems raised its holdings in  Hollysys Automation Technologies by 53.7% in the 4th quarter. Ramsey Quantitative Systems now owns 7,317 shares of the industrial products company’s stock worth $128,000 after acquiring an additional 2,555 shares during the period.  First Trust Advisors LP raised its holdings in  Hollysys Automation Technologies by 21.8% in the 4th quarter. First Trust Advisors LP now owns 18,269 shares of the industrial products company’s stock worth $320,000 after acquiring an additional 3,269 shares during the period.  Finally, Two Sigma Advisers LP raised its holdings in  Hollysys Automation Technologies by 3.8% in the 4th quarter. Two Sigma Advisers LP now owns 138,100 shares of the industrial products company’s stock worth $2,418,000 after acquiring an additional 5,000 shares during the period. Institutional investors and hedge funds own  73.92% of the company’s stock. Hollysys Automation Technologies Company ProfileHollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. provides automation and control technologies and products in the People's Republic of China, Southeast Asia, India, and the Middle East. The company offers a suite of industrial automation systems, including third-party hardware-centric products, such as instrumentation and actuators; proprietary software-centric distributed control systems/programmable logic controllers; and valued-added software packages comprising real-time management information system, HolliAS asset management system, operator training system, HolliAS batch application package, HolliAS advanced process control package, and safety instrumentation system, as well as HOLLiAS-NMS DCS, a proprietary nuclear power non-safety automation and control system.See Also: What is a stock buyback?To view ValuEngine’s full report, visit ValuEngine’s official website.Receive News & Ratings for Hollysys Automation Technologies Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Hollysys Automation Technologies and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.Reviewing NanoString Technologies (NSTG) & Voyager Therapeutics (VYGR)PERNOD RICARD S/ADR (PDRDY) Rating Lowered to Hold at Zacks Investment Research