The Kayamkulam police have started a probe after a 61-year-old serial actress lodged a rape complaint against a youth. 
      Published: 13th  April 2019 04:50 AM  |  
      
         Last Updated: 13th  April 2019 04:50 AM

  |  A+A A- ALAPPUZHA: The Kayamkulam police have started a probe after a 61-year-old serial actress lodged a rape complaint against a youth.The complaint said Siya, 37, of Ernakulam raped her several times over the past six months. Kayamkulam DySP R Binu said the actress filed a complaint against Siya, who went abroad 12 days ago. The complaint said Siya,  a friend of one of the serial crew, made friendship with the actress at the shooting location of a serial.  “As per the complaint, the actress was raped by the accused at several places, including at Thottapally and her house in Kayamkulam. He also recorded the visuals on his phone and forwarded the videos to his friends, her husband and relative via WhatsApp after he went abroad. We received the complaint on Thursday evening and a case has been registered based on the complaint,” the DySP said.  O
    P
    E
    NDisclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the newindianexpress.com editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.The views expressed in comments published on newindianexpress.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not represent the views or opinions of newindianexpress.com or its staff, nor do they represent the views or opinions of The New Indian Express Group, or any entity of, or affiliated with, The New Indian Express Group. newindianexpress.com reserves the right to take any or all comments down at any time.  JKLF chief Yasin Malik on hunger strike against NIA custody  Talks with IMF for bailout package to start soon: Pakistan Finance Advisor to PM Imran Khan  Manchester City gain Spurs revenge to remain in control of title race  Democrats in US House demand release of full Mueller report amid impeachment call  LS polls 2019: AAP Kerala to back LDF, suspends state convener who announced support to Congress  Air India can hire Jet's co-pilots, not 'costly Captains': IPGCopyright - newindianexpress.com 2019The Morning Standard | Dinamani |  Kannada Prabha |  Samakalika Malayalam | Indulgexpress  |  Edex Live  |  Cinema Express |   Event Xpress  Contact Us |  About Us |  Careers | Privacy Policy |  Search |  Terms of Use |  Advertise With Us  Home |  Nation |  World |  Cities |  Business |  Columns |  Entertainment |  Sport |  Magazine |  The Sunday Standard  