
The modern day slavery of human trafficking has been gaining attention more each year.But what is it?It is the use of force, fraud, or coercion to obtain some type of labor or commercial sex act, according to the Homeland Security website.It's the fastest growing crime in the world, according to Forbes Magazine.This is not Okay with Dawn Bracy and Dawn Leno of Coldwater.Several years ago the friends realized they both had a passion to do something about the problem of human trafficking, but what?“Who am I?” Bracy thought as she faced the issue.Leno had been working to raise some money for the cause, but without a solid plan.When they joined forces, the friends jumped in and pursued it whole-heartedly by first seeking training.The Kalamazoo Anti-Human Trafficking Coalition was very helpful, Bracy said. State and local law enforcement officers also supported them as did the Branch County Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence.So Bracy and Leno formed the Branch County Anti Human Trafficking Coalition.“It’s a ministry,” Bracy said.It’s not a complex organization but they did receive a grant. With that money they were able to buy hotel size soap to which they added a sticker with a phone number to call for help.Law enforcement officers speculate that the Coldwater area is more of a corridor for traffickers with I-69 and the Indiana East–West Toll Road intersecting 13 miles south, Bracy said.Because of the highways, Coldwater has multiple hotels, so Bracy and Leno visited the hotels offering to supply them with free soap and training for employees who see more suspicious activity than the average  person.At first none were receptive, Bracy said.Holding her hand up demonstrating a stop sign, she said, “It was ‘No’. ‘No’. ‘No’.”Finally with the support of the right person, all but one hotel invited them to train employees. However, only a few could accept the soap because of chain regulations.That was last year and they hope to do the training again this year, Leno said. It’s important to repeat because of staff turnover.Human trafficking is also a concern for the Branch County Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence.On April 12, they showed “Ring of Silence” at Tibbits Opera House at four different times.The disturbing feature movie showed how trafficking can happen to a nice girl or a good boy as well as a stereo-typical runaway because it all started with attention and a promise of love.It wasn’t easy to watch and following the movie, Kim Hemker, director of Branch County Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence, told the audience to take a deep breath before discussion began.One audience member said she thought it only happened to young people who were abducted. Hemker assured her it can happen to many vulnerable people, and who isn’t vulnerable?“We all want to be loved,” she said.Their decision to bring the movie to Coldwater was to raise awareness, Hemker said. Even though it’s not a pretty picture, “We don’t like to see it either, she said. “But it happens. We have to be aware.”BCCADSV now has offices in downtown Coldwater, Bronson, Quincy and Union City. All locations also have other businesses, allowing the visit to be discrete. Sturgis efforts Lynda Unterkircher, a 2018 Sturgis High School graduate and her friend Heidi Musolff, also of Sturgis, have been working for several years to raise awareness of this issue, and raise funds for organizations that help victims.Unterkircher said she first became aware of the problem a few years ago when Grace Christian Fellowship of Sturgis hosted an A21 “Walk for Freedom.”It caused her to take a step back.“It could have been me,” Unterkircher said, if her life circumstance had been even slightly different.So she went into action. In 2017 and 2018 Unterkircher and Musolff promoted “Dressember,” a national movement to raise awareness to the problem. Participants wore a dress or tie for the entire month and a button that says “Ask Me About the Dress.”Now Unterkircher is a Glen Oak Community College student. The college has a Viking Speaker Series. On April 17, guest, Liz Seccuro, will be on campus at noon telling her story of being raped on her college campus. She is the author of “Crash Into Me: A Survivor's Search for Justice.”With the theme tie-in to sexual violence, Unterkircher has been invited set up a table at the event to accept donations of money, hygiene and beauty products for women. All will go to local women’s shelters.For more information on the problem of human trafficking visit //stopthistraffic. org.For help call (517) 278 SAFE (7233) for Branch County Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse NewsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							The Daily Reporter - Coldwater, MI  ~ 15 W. Pearl St., Coldwater, MI 49036 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.