It would be extremely hard nowadays to imagine a family not visiting a grocery store each week. It would be even harder to imagine having to “live off the land” today. Growing up in a large sharecropper family (13 children) in Stokes County, North Carolina, my family seldom visited a grocery store; we grew, hunted, and gathered most of our food. An especially memorable meal we frequently enjoyed was “poke salad and possum.”In Tony Joe White’s hit song of 1969, “Poke Salad Annie,” he tells about poke salad in the South:"Down there we have a plant that grows out in the woods, and the fieldsAnd it looks something’ like a turnip greenEverybody calls it poke salad"“Poke salad” (polk salad, pokeweed, or poke sallet) was a succulent leafy green that we ate frequently. Even though poke salad made a deliciously nutritious meal, it was a highly toxic plant and special care was needed to remove the toxins before consumption. The poke leaves had to be boiled and rinsed several times to remove the poisons before poke could be eaten safely. Poke salad was almost a staple for us because it was so plentiful and didn’t cost anything.The poke plant grew wild at the edge of fields and in the woods. When cooked, poke looks and tastes somewhat like spinach or turnip greens, and is also similar to them in its texture and consistency. A person had to be extremely careful when gathering the leaves from the odd-looking plant with its bluish-purple berries and red stems. To avoid most of the toxins, the tender leaves had to be gathered while the plant was still young and without any berries. Although the ripe berries looked appealing (somewhat like bunches of grapes), they were extremely toxic to humans and birds and had to be avoided completely. After boiling and rinsing, the poke leaves were pan fried with sauteed onions for a couple of minutes in bacon grease. Even though cooked poke salad left a long-standing pungent smell in the house, the final product resulted in an extremely tasty dish.White’s song emphasizes further how important poke salad was to a poor girl (Annie) who lived in Louisiana and went to the woods in the evenings to pick a mess of salad to cook for supper. Joe laments in his song that:"Because her momma was a workin' on the chain gangA wretched, spiteful, straight-razor totin' womanHer daddy was lazy and no-count, claimed he had a bad backAll her brothers were fit forWas stealin’ watermelons out of my truck patch …"White’s song shows how much poor folks relied on poke salad because it provided them with free meals.Since my father hunted a lot, he always had 25 to 30 different kinds of hunting dogs. Two of his favorites were his possum-hunting dogs. Just after nightfall, you could frequently find them barking at a possum they had treed on a limb. One of my older brothers, Howard, was an extremely good climber. As my father stood on the ground and shined his flashlight on the possum in the tree, Howard would scamper up the tree, catch the possum, and lower it to the ground in a burlap sack. My father would then take the possum home, put it in a cage, and feed it corn for about a week. My father maintained he had to feed a possum a few days to “clean it out really well” before eating it.The procedure for cleaning and preparing a possum was somewhat like that of cleaning a pig at hog killing time. The possum was submerged into boiling water so that its hair could be easily removed and its skin scraped. Then, the possum was disemboweled, and its head and tail were removed. Finally, my mother placed the prepared possum on a cooking sheet and surrounded it with sweet potatoes cut in halves before she placed the possum in the oven to bake. My father especially loved fat meat, so a delicacy for him was to sop the halved sweet potatoes in the fat produced from the baked possum. No food could be too fatty for my father!At many lunches our meal consisted of baked possum (surrounded with halved sweet potatoes), a side dish of poke salad, crackling cornbread, pinto beans, and buttermilk. The meal was not only tasty, but it also provided the necessary nutrients to sustain our family and keep us healthy. And it was extremely inexpensive.Tony Joe White says it best in his song: “Sock a little poke salad to me, you know I need me a mess of it.”Gil Bowman is a previous contributor to The Readers Write.   
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse NewsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							The Free Press  ~ 2103 North Queen Street, Kinston, NC 28501 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.