Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutPolice arrested Las Cruces, New Mexico, doctor Mark Beale after he allegedly forced some female patients to have sex with him.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. LAS CRUCES — A Las Cruces psychiatrist and pain management specialist allegedly forced women to have sex with him, police say.Dr. Mark Beale, 72, is alleged to have had inappropriate contact with six of his patients, ranging in age from 21 to 60, beginning in January 2015.Police allege Beale forced some of the women to have sex with him, or engage in sexual contact, at his office, at 133 Wyatt Drive, or in one case, at a woman's home.Beale also may have prescribed medications to some of the women without properly diagnosing their symptoms, police say.Mark Beale (Photo: Doña Ana County Detention Center)He's been charged with three third-degree felony counts of criminal sexual penetration, four fourth-degree felony counts of criminal sexual contact and three misdemeanor counts of battery.Police say they learned of the allegations against Beale in October 2018. A warrant was obtained for Beale at 10 a.m. Friday, and he was arrested in his home. Police say Beale will be booked into the Doña Ana County Detention Center, where he's expected to be initially held without bond. The investigation is ongoing and additional charges are possible, police say.Anyone else who believes they may be a victim is asked to call police at 575-526-0795.The investigation is a collaborative effort between the Las Cruces Police, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Metro Narcotic unit. More: El Paso police arrest Guillen Middle School teacher for alleged relationship with studentMore: Guatemala migrant tried to rape immigrant woman at El Paso shelter site, police say 