Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutDefense and highlight reel catches were on display at USM's Black & Gold spring game. Here are three players that stood out.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's
                                            community rules.
                                            Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
                                        Southern Miss' annual Black & Gold Spring game was all about defense. In a game that featured a brief rain delay, a few highlight reel catches and an impressive display at quarterback from a surprising source, the Gold team edged out the Black team, 10-6. Here are some of the players who stood out in the spring game.The quarterback competition may have heated up just a bit in Hattiesburg and this sophomore quarterback is the reason why. Whatley outplayed Jack Abraham, the odds-on favorite to be named the Golden Eagles' starting quarterback, for most of the game. He was especially impressive on his deep throws.In the second quarter, he hit Trevor Terry in stride with a near-perfect pass for a 64-yard touchdown that would be the only one of the first half. Southern Miss quarterback Tate Whatley loads up to throw as head coach Jay Hopson looks on Saturday, April 13, 2019, during the Black & Gold spring game in Hattiesburg (Photo: Brad Crowe, USM Student Printz)He went on to finish the game 9-of-15 for 203 yards and a touchdown. Nothing is set in stone at the quarterback position yet, and Whatley made a strong case for himself with his performance. "I'm going to let them compete," USM head coach Jay Hopson said. "I think Tate's earned that right. He came out today and had an outstanding day so we're going to put the ball down and let guys go and we'll find out here in mid-August where we're at."Whatley can thank the next player on this list in particular for a significant portion of his production. The senior wide receiver didn't get a chance to really show what he could do last season. A hamstring injury that he couldn't seem to recover from kept him on the sideline for most of the season, but Hopson said he showed signs of potential in the last two weeks of the season. He showed more of those strides in the spring game and also proved he can be the deep threat the Golden Eagles need in 2019. He only had three catches, but two of them were the best of the entire game. McLaurin reeled in two deep balls along the sideline, both of which he had to bring in with defenders draped all over him. He finished the game with three catches for 85 yards."All spring we've had a good connection," Whatley said of McLaurin. "Today he was just making plays and high-pointing the ball and making plays. That's what he does. He's a great athlete."There were plenty of solid performances of the defensive side of the ball during USM's spring game. Tre Davis picked off Abraham twice. Tahj Sykes was in the backfield nearly every play and the defensive fronts for both teams Southern Miss defensive back Tre Davis returns an interception during Saturday's Black & Gold spring game in Hattiesburg. (Photo: Brad Crowe, USM Student Printz)But one of the day's most impressive and perhaps even inspirational performances of the game came from walk-on Zach Portlock. Tackles were not recorded in the statistics during the game, but it wasn't necessary to see the impact he had on defense. Portlock finished the game with a couple of tackles for loss and found a way to affect plays whenever he was on the field. The competition is strong at linebacker, but Hopson said showings like the one the redshirt-sophomore put on during the spring game give Portlock a strong case for seeing time on Saturdays. "I feel good about how I played," Portlock said. "My main goal coming in was to make some plays and show coach I can play so I feel like I did that."  