By Ilaria Brophy For Daily Mail Australia  Published: 02:12 EDT, 14 April 2019  |  Updated: 05:35 EDT, 14 April 2019   1View  commentsBachelor In Paradise star Davey Lloyd and his former Paradise fling Leah Costa engaged in a public war of words on social media last week.Leah, who shared a smooch with Davey before he moved onto Florence Alexandra during last year's season of the Fiji-based dating series, took a swipe at her ex on the official BIP Instagram account on Thursday April 11. In a post which teased the 29-year-old carpenter's arrival into Paradise, Leah commented: 'Who is Davey going to awkwardly try and face rape for a rose this time?'  Scroll down for video'Go back to being a toppo mate!' Bachelor In Paradise's Davey Lloyd (left) and his former fling Leah Costa (right) engage in a public war of words on Instagram'I guess not much has changed with you,' Davey replied with the hashtag: 'kook.'  Leah continued to take aim at Davey and even suggested he was going to 'fake' a romance with Dutch-born beauty Florence in Fiji.  'Nothings changed, still want authenticity in people. I'm guessing that you and Flo have rearranged to keep each other there and fake a relationship to drag out your 30 seconds of publicity,' the blonde bombshell wrote.Heated exchange: Davey and his former fling, Leah engaged in a public war of words on social media last week'I'm guessing that you and Florence  have rearranged to keep each other there and fake a relationship!' Leah continued to take aim at Davey (right) and even suggested he was going to 'fake' a romance with the Dutch-born beauty Florence Alexandra (left) in FijiShe went on to hint Florence will be entering the Mango Bay resort this current season, which is yet to be confirmed by Channel 10.'That is if you can lie and scramble to last until she gets there,' she added alongside a laughing emoji.Davey countered with an equally-brutal reply by mocking Leah's previous stint as a topless waitress.'Go back to being a toppo mate, surely that's the only attention you get!' Davey wrote, to which Leah had no response.In August 2017, Leah's DreamGirlz topless waitress profile from 2015 surfaced online.'Go back to being a toppo mate!' Davey referenced Leah's (pictured) previous stint as a topless waitress'Player got played!' Leah took a swipe at Davey via her Instagram Story in March last year, after the 'player' was forced to make an early exit from Bachelor In ParadiseHowever this isn't the first time the pair have lashed out at each other since appearing on the show together last year.  Following Davey's abrupt departure from BIP in March last year, Leah took to her Instagram Story to mock her former date. Sharing a snap of herself with a humourless expression, the Melbourne socialite poked fun at Davey's inability to score a rose.'The face when Davey goes home and you know the truth behind it all,' Leah wrote.Getting in another hit in the hashtag, she then wrote: 'Player got played.' 'She is just sour and a little brat': Bachelor In Paradise reject Davey Lloyd, 28, hit back at Leah Costa, 25, in an interview with Mamamia in March last year, after his former date mocked his abrupt departure on the showThe following day, Davey told Mamamia that his former co-star was 'sour' and a 'little brat'.'I think she is just sour. She just realised what was actually going on, that I was interested in Flo over her and regretted taking her on a date,' Davey told Mamamia.'She knew it all though, we even had an argument about it where I told her if I had my chance again, I would've picked Flo,' the Sydney-based lad continued.Davey went on to say that at the end of the day, Leah is 'just a little brat sometimes.'  Reflection: Davey, who locked lips with Leah before moving onto co-star Florence, told the site: 'I think she is just sour. She just realised what was actually going on, that I was interested in Flo over her and regretted taking her on a date' The first rose ceremony in Fiji was a dramatic affair with the fate of the players left in the women's hands. With seven roses to hand out and nine hopeful men, the two men not offered roses would be sent home from paradise. Failing to find a connection with Davey on their brief date, Leah bypassed the Sydney-based suitor and instead gave her rose to Mackane Reid.No spark? Leah and Davey were the first to share a kiss but their romance was short-livedAnd although Florence showed keen interest for Davey early on, it appeared the Dutch stunner couldn't get over the fact he had chosen Leah for time alone instead of her.She also had history with Georgia Love's former beau Jake Ellis and was torn over whether to pick him or Davey.Florence ultimately chose to see if her already existing spark with Jake would turn into something more, which left Davey packing his bags.Rose ceremony: Leah (right) bypassed Davey at the rose ceremony and instead asked Mackane Reid (left) to stay during last year's season of BIPPublished by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group