My home seems to be a popular stopover location for birds on the move. On Tuesday, I had a bird that I kept watch over for three hours before it departed. And I was certain that this was a juvenile eagle. It was definitely the right size and was sitting in the upright position of eagles, but it had a fully white breast.And that is what is leading me to doubt my own judgment. I have been to the library looking for books and came home with two that perhaps I should have been searching more closely before I came home. I still can’t find a good picture of a juvenile eagle. I found a photo online of a juvenile eagle, but it didn't have a white breast, so that leaves me puzzled.Now as I write today, perched in the same tree was another very large bird that also could be a juvenile eagle, and this time, no white breast. I don’t know when it arrived but was only able to watch it for about 15 minutes before it flew away. It had a very wide wing span and did glide with the wind with only a few wing flaps. Maybe that was my true juvenile eagle. So the question remains, what was the bird that rested for three hours on Tuesday? I used to have a bird book, but I think Dean “borrowed” it the last time he was here. And I do recall a large bird with a white breast, but that does not solve my problem.I have been told by some friends that there is an eagle nest in Freeport, but I don’t know where. A good guess would be in the vicinity of Krape Park because of closeness to Yellow Creek, since I have read that eagles like to eat mostly fish. But the fact that eagles prefer fish certainly does not make Freeport a very good home for anything that prefers fish.The tree that these traveling birds like to rest in is a chestnut tree and it had been on our property for many years, probably hundreds of years. When I was a child living on the farm on Pearl City Road, my father had a person from the state of Illinois come to the farm to test the age of a large oak tree that was in our front yard, and we were told that the tree was probably there before Columbus discovered America.As I close out this column for today, I think that one of my next important projects is to better study juvenile eagles. As I looked through one of the books I brought home from the library, there is a picture of two scientists taking a blood sample from a young eagle with no white breast. So that should answer my question, but for now the bird with the white breast remains a mystery.Marsha Holden; holdenhousehold9939@gmail.com
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse EntertainmentlifeOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							Rockford Register Star  ~ 99 E. State St., Rockford, IL 61104 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.