By Karl QuinnThe Brady Bunch: a blended family's back story in one snappy song.For some people, the opening credits before their favourite TV show are little more than a last-minute chance to put on the kettle. But for others, the title sequence (as it is also known) is a show unto itself, a finely crafted 90 seconds or so of scene-setting, mood establishment and storytelling so important it has a budget, a production team and even an awards night all its own.The best of them really are something to behold. As Angus Wall, creative director of Los Angeles production company Elastic, a specialist in the genre, puts it: “You have 90 seconds with the title sequence so why not do something that the show can’t do.”Yet for all the craft and care involved in creating opening sequences, there’s a sad paradox: it’s never been easier to skip them. Heck, on the streaming services you’re even encouraged to do so.So what are they for? How did they become so sophisticated? And which ones are so good they've won gongs?Replay Notionally, the opening credits exist to impart some very basic technical information – typically, who created the show, who stars in it, who produced, directed and wrote it. You can call that vanity if you like, but it also helps sell the show. Tell people it’s from producer J.J. Abrams (Lost, Westworld) or Joss Whedon (Buffy, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.) or Ryan Murphy (Glee, Feud) and it will make a difference, to some of the audience at least. Of course, getting their name out there also helps build a brand, and that helps to get the next show made, with more credit sequences. A virtuous circle, if you will.The Odd Couple: "That request came from his wife." Absolutely not. Back in the 1960s and ’70s, the title sequence frequently offered back story – often in song – that meant newcomers to the show could get their heads around the basic set-up even if they had missed the first few episodes (this was especially so with comedies).Think of Gilligan’s Island (“Just sit right back/And you'll hear a tale/A tale of a fateful trip”), The Brady Bunch (“Here’s the story of a lovely lady…”) and The Flintstones (“Flintstones. Meet the Flintstones/They’re the modern stone age family”).Sometimes, the set-up was practically an episode in itself. “On November 13, Felix Unger was asked to remove himself from his place of residence. That request came from his wife,” began the title sequence of The Odd Couple. Felix (Tony Randall), a neat freak, of course moved in with his friend Oscar Madison (Jack Klugman), a slob, thus setting up the dynamic at the heart of the sitcom. “Can two divorced men share an apartment without driving each other crazy?”More recently, some opening sequences served simply to introduce us to the key characters – a feat achieved in a super-snappy 12 seconds by How I Met Your Mother, and by Friends in 47 seconds of frolicking fun in front of (and in) a fountain to the perky strains of the Rembrandts’ I’ll be There For You.These days, though, they are more focused on setting tone and mood, and perhaps establishing some key themes or dramatic arcs. Think of Mad Men’s title sequence, in which a faceless shadow man freefalls through a canyon of ad-plastered high-rises before calmly settling back into his sofa, fag in hand; that’s the story of Don Draper (Jon Hamm) right there.Sometimes yes. Madcap comedy series The Detour opens each episode with snippets from the previous one, but cut together in a “house style” that is the same from week to week. It’s tight, fast and a reminder of the funniest moments from the previous show and it serves as mood setter and refresher all in one.The title sequence for Better Call Saul, the spin-off show from Breaking Bad, clocks in at just 12 seconds, and comprises offcuts of incidental footage overlaid with garish colours that mimic both the terrible dress sense of shonky lawyer Saul Goodman (Bob Odenkirk) and the lo-fi cable TV ads he creates for himself. Best yet, the theme music cuts off mid-bar, leaving everything feeling ever so slightly unresolved and off. It is a model of efficiency in setting tone and creating tension.But in this so-called “golden age” of television, many shows are going to the opposite extreme, utilising big budgets and the full armoury of CGI – computer-generated imagery – to create sequences that seriously pop.Consider Westworld's opening credits, which craft a world from the technological equivalent of primordial slime – humans, animals, objects come to life thanks to a milky white liquid extruded through 3D printers. A piano is played by a skeletal human, then plays itself. The theme of AI developing its own consciousness and turning on its creators is beautifully encapsulated in a little less than two minutes.But it’s not all CGI. Homeland’s title sequence has evolved over its seven seasons but always tries to establish a nervy tone – thanks to its jump-cut assembly and jazz theme – while painting a portrait of its heroine, CIA agent Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes), as both paranoid and right to be so.Homeland's credits speak to the inner world of its understandably paranoid protagonist. Credit:ShowtimeThe credits for Stranger Things (created by the same studio responsible for Mad Men, Imaginary Forces) deserve special mention for the way they bring to mind such an array of early-1980s associations – from “video nasties” to the novels of Stephen King – through nothing more than clever use of typeface, synth track and image crackle.The broad idea of Southern Gothic plays out in the credits to True Blood and True Detective, both riffing on a melange of swampy blues, race, religion, sex and death.Closer to home, the credits for mystery series Bloom recount the five deaths caused by an inland tsunami in 43 seconds of watercolour paintings while, in Puberty Blues, Dragon’s 1978 song Are You Old Enough? plays over the top of footage of waves rolling inside a desktop paperweight. Combined, it brilliantly evokes the sense of nostalgia, beach culture and teenage sexual awakening at the heart of the show.Twin Peaks: was this the beginning of the moody opening credit?Credit:ShowtimeThough it’s a long way removed stylistically from, say, The Crown with its molten gold slowly resolving into the regal headgear, you could argue that David Lynch’s 1990 series Twin Peaks sparked the shift to title sequences that were all about setting mood and tone.Its opening sequence ran a lugubrious two minutes and 40 seconds, opened with a robin in a pine tree, and mostly consisted of long, slow shots of forests, lakes, lumber equipment being honed in a factory, and the sign welcoming visitors to the sleepy town of Twin Peaks. All so calm and normal on the surface, and all so very twisted beneath it.Game of Thrones: the intricate 3D map points to the action in each episode.Credit:HBOBecause one of the finest examples of the genre is for Game of Thrones, and fans of the show will be paying particular attention when it returns to Australia on April 15. That’s because the title sequence is continually changing to reflect the different locations visited in each episode.The sequence, which won an Emmy for title design in 2011, always starts in King’s Landing, always features Winterfell and The Wall, and always pays a visit to wherever Daenerys happens to be. But that still leaves time within its 100 seconds or so to visit one or two other locations relevant to each particular episode.So far, the title sequence has taken in 21 different locations, though not every place seen in the show gets a turn on the map (the digital sequence is expensive and time-consuming to create so a place visited only briefly isn’t going to get a turn).Production company Elastic began planning the sequence two years before the show debuted in April 2011, and a team of around 20 artists and technicians spent six months working on it. Composer Ramin Djawadi added the score late in the piece.Incidentally, Djawadi and Elastic later collaborated on Westworld. That spectacular sequence – on which Australian-born Patrick Clair served as creative director – was nominated for an Emmy for best title design in 2017 but lost out to Stranger Things.In Puberty Blues' credits, the surf is represented in a paperweight.Credit:Network TenNobody’s going to blame you if you decide to press that “skip intro” button, especially if you’re bingeing a whole bunch of episodes in one sitting.But before you do, consider what you’re missing out on. At their best, those intros are a form of storytelling in their own right.So why not spare a moment, and give credit where credit's due.The Age and Herald explainers give you behind-the-scenes background in entertainment and on issues and people in the news, from who Virat Kohli is to this year's new AFL rules to why Fraser Anning can't be removed from Parliament. If you'd like an issue explained, including in the lead-up to the federal election, drop our explainer editor a line at explainers@smh.com.au or explainers@theage.com.auKarl is a senior entertainment writer at The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald.Copyright © 2019