While CM HD Kumaraswamy was seen in Mandya with a 14-ft garland made of raisins weighing 220 kg, a political party placed an order for a 250-kg apple garland worth Rs 55,000 recently. 
      Published: 13th  April 2019 06:15 AM  |  
      
         Last Updated: 13th  April 2019 06:15 AM

  |  A+A A- A garland made of apples was used to welcome BJP chief Amit Shah in Bengaluru earlier this week|   Nagaraja GadekalBENGALURU: Gone are the days when garlands made of flowers were the most sought-after in political rallies. They have now been replaced with those made of fruits and dry fruits. Recently, Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy, who was at Krishnaraja Sagara in Mandya district campaigning for his son Nikhil, was presented with a 14-ft garland made of raisins weighing 220 kg. A battalion of 10 workers toiled for 15 days to create the exotic garland. Not just raisins, garlands made of apples, musambis, figs, almonds, cashews, strawberries, pomegranates and grapes are in huge demand and they are so humongous that a crane is needed to lift them. These garlands can burn a hole in a customer’s pocket by anywhere between Rs 6,000 and Rs 2.5 lakh. The change in trend, however, has put a smile on the faces of flower and fruit vendors.FOLLOW OUR FULL ELECTION COVERAGE HEREDhanraj, who owns a flower and fruit shop at Mysuru’s Devaraja Market, got an order from a JD(S) leader for a garland made of rasins. “Raisins are small. Hence, it consumes a lot of time to make a garland measuring 14-ft. We deployed 10 workers. Each day, each worker could put together only 2 kg of raisins. Flowers were also added to the garland to increase its grandeur. It took us a fortnight to complete it. It was transported in a truck from Mysuru to KRS,” he said. Dhanraj adds that painstaking efforts are required to create an almond garland. “We got an order for a 12-ft almond garland. We used 120 kg of almonds and spent close to Rs 1.5 lakh. We had to soak the almonds in water for 10 hours and then string it together using a needle,” he added. Like his counterpart in Mysuru, Raju from Bengaluru’s KR Market, who specialises in apple garlands, is a busy man this poll season. “Recently, a political party placed an order for a 250-kg apple garland worth Rs 55,000. We send our garlands to other states as well,” he added. So how did this tradition of using fruits in garlands start? According to Belur Somashekar, a politician from Mandya, “Giving fruits to our guests is part of our custom. Hence, we do the same for our netas.”Change in trendO
    P
    E
    NDisclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the newindianexpress.com editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.The views expressed in comments published on newindianexpress.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not represent the views or opinions of newindianexpress.com or its staff, nor do they represent the views or opinions of The New Indian Express Group, or any entity of, or affiliated with, The New Indian Express Group. newindianexpress.com reserves the right to take any or all comments down at any time.  JKLF chief Yasin Malik on hunger strike against NIA custody  Talks with IMF for bailout package to start soon: Pakistan Finance Advisor to PM Imran Khan  Manchester City gain Spurs revenge to remain in control of title race  Democrats in US House demand release of full Mueller report amid impeachment call  LS polls 2019: AAP Kerala to back LDF, suspends state convener who announced support to Congress  Air India can hire Jet's co-pilots, not 'costly Captains': IPGCopyright - newindianexpress.com 2019The Morning Standard | Dinamani |  Kannada Prabha |  Samakalika Malayalam | Indulgexpress  |  Edex Live  |  Cinema Express |   Event Xpress  Contact Us |  About Us |  Careers | Privacy Policy |  Search |  Terms of Use |  Advertise With Us  Home |  Nation |  World |  Cities |  Business |  Columns |  Entertainment |  Sport |  Magazine |  The Sunday Standard  