25-year-old Parvez had a quarrel with his family when he left the house. 
      Published: 13th  April 2019 07:06 AM  |  
      
         Last Updated: 13th  April 2019 07:06 AM

  |  A+A A- Parvez was brought down after an hour-long operationBENGALURU: Tension gripped Cottonpet after a 25-year-old mentally challenged man tried to end his life by jumping from the terrace of a five-storey residential complex on Friday. He was rescued by the fire department.A police officer said that the incident took place at 8.30 am. Residents of MS Lane in Cottonpet were in panic when Parvez, a resident of Pillanna Garden in KG Halli, began screaming and clinging to the edge of a parapet wall in the terrace. Hoysala patrolling staff rushed to the spot after residents contacted the police, and tried to convince him to come down. As he continued the act, the fire department had to be called. He was finally brought down at 10.40am and was taken to a nearby hospital. A senior officer from the fire department said, "We received an alert at 9.25 am and managed to bring him down after an hour-long operation. He was shouting that he did not want any policemen around him and would jump if he saw any person in uniform. We manged to divert his attention, and finally pulled him down. Since he had not eaten for the the last two days, he was very weak. We took him to Srinivas Nursing Home, where he kept screaming that he was chased by the CCB police before he climbed the terrace."According to the police, Parvez had a quarrel with his family when he left the house. His mother Zabina Banu came to the hospital and gave a statement, and said that he used to be locked inside a room, but left home when his family was sleeping around 6 am. She said his father had passed away a few years ago.O
    P
    E
    NDisclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the newindianexpress.com editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.The views expressed in comments published on newindianexpress.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not represent the views or opinions of newindianexpress.com or its staff, nor do they represent the views or opinions of The New Indian Express Group, or any entity of, or affiliated with, The New Indian Express Group. newindianexpress.com reserves the right to take any or all comments down at any time.  JKLF chief Yasin Malik on hunger strike against NIA custody  Talks with IMF for bailout package to start soon: Pakistan Finance Advisor to PM Imran Khan  Manchester City gain Spurs revenge to remain in control of title race  Democrats in US House demand release of full Mueller report amid impeachment call  LS polls 2019: AAP Kerala to back LDF, suspends state convener who announced support to Congress  Air India can hire Jet's co-pilots, not 'costly Captains': IPGCopyright - newindianexpress.com 2019The Morning Standard | Dinamani |  Kannada Prabha |  Samakalika Malayalam | Indulgexpress  |  Edex Live  |  Cinema Express |   Event Xpress  Contact Us |  About Us |  Careers | Privacy Policy |  Search |  Terms of Use |  Advertise With Us  Home |  Nation |  World |  Cities |  Business |  Columns |  Entertainment |  Sport |  Magazine |  The Sunday Standard  