
Synlogic, 
      Inc., (Nasdaq: SYBX) a clinical-stage drug discovery and development 
      company applying synthetic biology to probiotics to develop novel living 
      medicines, today announced that data from its program to develop solid 
      oral formulations of its Synthetic BioticTM medicines will be 
      presented at the upcoming 22nd Annual Meeting of the American Society of 
      Gene & Cell Therapy, which is being held from April 29 to May 2, 2019, 
      in Washington, DC. The presentation will focus on preparation and 
      characteristics of a solid oral preparation of SYNB1618, Synlogic’s 
      synthetic biotic medicine for the treatment of phenylketonuria (PKU).
    
      Details of the presentation are as follows:
    
Development and Preclinical Characterization of a Solid Oral 
      Formulation of a Synthetic Biotic Medicine for the Treatment of PKUAbstract 
      number: 616Session Date and Time: Tuesday Apr 30, 2019 5:00 PM - 
      6:00 PM ETSession title: Cell Therapies IIRoom: Columbia HallAbstracts 
      can be found at ASGCT2019

About SynlogicSynlogic is pioneering the development of a 
      novel class of living medicines, Synthetic Biotic medicines, based on 
      its proprietary drug development platform. Synlogic leverages the tools 
      and principles of synthetic biology to genetically engineer beneficial 
      microbes to perform or deliver critical functions missing or damaged due 
      to disease. Synthetic Biotic medicines are designed to act locally and 
      have a systemic effect to address disease in patients. Synlogic’s two 
      lead programs, SYNB1020 and SYNB1618, are orally administered and target 
      hyperammonemia as a result of liver damage or genetic disease, and 
      phenylketonuria, respectively. Synlogic is also developing SYNB1891 as 
      an intratumorally-administered Synthetic Biotic medicine for the 
      treatment of cancer. In addition, the company is leveraging the broad 
      potential of its platform to create additional Synthetic Biotic 
      medicines for the treatment of liver disease, as well as inflammatory 
      and immune disorders including Synlogic’s collaboration with AbbVie to 
      develop Synthetic Biotic-based treatments for inflammatory bowel disease 
      (IBD). For more information, please visit www.synlogictx.com.
    
Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release contains 
      “forward-looking statements” that involve substantial risks and 
      uncertainties for purposes of the safe harbor provided by the Private 
      Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than 
      statements of historical facts, included in this press release regarding 
      strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenue, 
      projected expenses, prospects, plans and objectives of management are 
      forward-looking statements. In addition, when or if used in this press 
      release, the words “may,” “could,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” 
      “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict” and similar 
      expressions and their variants, as they relate to Synlogic may identify 
      forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements, 
      include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the potential of 
      Synlogic’s platform to develop therapeutics to address a wide range of 
      diseases including: inborn errors of metabolism, liver disease, 
      inflammatory and immune disorders, and cancer; the future clinical 
      development of Synthetic Biotic medicines; the approach Synlogic is 
      taking to discover and develop novel therapeutics using synthetic 
      biology; the potential of Synlogic’s technology to treat hyperammonemia, 
      phenylketonuria and cancer. Actual results could differ materially from 
      those contained in any forward-looking statement as a result of various 
      factors, including: the uncertainties inherent in the preclinical 
      development process; the ability of Synlogic to protect its intellectual 
      property rights; and legislative, regulatory, political and economic 
      developments, as well as those risks identified under the heading “Risk 
      Factors” in Synlogic’s filings with the SEC. The forward-looking 
      statements contained in this press release reflect Synlogic’s current 
      views with respect to future events. Synlogic anticipates that 
      subsequent events and developments will cause its views to change. 
      However, while Synlogic may elect to update these forward-looking 
      statements in the future, Synlogic specifically disclaims any obligation 
      to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as 
      representing Synlogic’s view as of any date subsequent to the date 
      hereof.
    
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190415005805/en/