Howdy, folks. How do you like this warm spring weather we’ve been having? I am asking you this when the sun is shining brightly and the outdoor temperature is in the low 70s range. It is hard telling what it will be by the time this reaches you, my dear readers. We can expect anything in this changeable Midwest climate we live in, but don’t you just love it? Personally, I have no desire to live where the weather is monotonously the same all year.The grass here has already taken on its bright green shades, and the sun is giving us longer daylight every day. That is boosting to the morale, don’t you think? As I gaze out my “southern exposing” window, I see white cottony billowing clouds moving northeastward with beautiful baby blue swatches showing through the wisps of foam. However, we do not know what our capricious Mother Nature will dish out in our midst before the evening turns to night. (She knows what she’s doing, though, and we just have to be patient to see what we get. I believe she works hand-in-hand with the creator.)On our regular van ride this morning we spotted patches of jonquils, daffodils and crocus blooming in yards we passed. In Freeport’s Krape Park, men were raking up debris from winter’s ravages and the recent flooding, readying it for those area residents who are hankering for picnics and cookouts, just to avail themselves of the great free, fresh outdoors.There’s no remedy for those hang-over winter “blues” you and I may be recovering from that is quite as good as just getting outside. An evening walk is both invigorating and conducive to a good night’s rest. A leisurely evening walk relieves you from the confines of your job, the blare of the TV or the invasion of the telephone, enabling you to relax and listen to the birdies chirping their sweet lullabies, that is, before our faithful old robins, which are usually the last song birds to bid goodnight, call it a day.My nature-loving daughter who was just here visiting me, shared with me her current bird sightings. She just told me she has already spotted, along with the robins, red-winged black birds, Eastern towhees, killdeers, and just this past week, chipping sparrows and wrens. She said some which are still missing include brown thrashers, humming birds and barn swallows. She knows a whole lot more about birds than her mother does, but I have always enjoyed spotting different species and becoming acquainted with their different calls and habitats.I also just talked with a friend, planning to pay a visit to her first grandchild, a baby girl, some distance away. She was going to head north where her daughter, son-in-law and the baby reside. It is not surprising when you see the sparkle of her eyes that this new grandmother has already made that trip several times in the past several months. It was heart-warming to see her bright countenance.But I digress. Returning to our original topic, I must say, spring can also sprout some feelings of nostalgia. I used to always hit some of the little individual sales stands which offered flats of tomato sprouts and other vegetables as well as petunias, lilies, iris, phlox and numerous others of the decorative varieties. It was fun to wander through the rows of rooted plants at the shops’ outdoor displays and in the parking lots of various variety stores. Those spots are traditionally buzzing with business throughout the springtime. Florists, grocers and even department stores line their parking areas with row upon row of green and flowering plants.My gullibility always got me carried away with the variety of choices and I would get home with more to plant than I had spots for. I filled hanging baskets on my front porch and on the back-door patio. Then some went in along the foundations of my house and garage. I eventually found places for all of them, but it was quite a chore to keep them watered during the dry spells.My Aunt Hattie, who was a part of our family household as I grew up, sure knew and cherished her flowers. She in fact loved all of nature’s glory. She loved the trees and bushes, the stars and other facets of nature. The lot on which our house stood was lined with about every kind of shrub known to the Midwest. There was almost always something in bloom. There was bridal wreath, lilacs, peonies, burning bush and roses, galore. There was even a vine of a bittersweet plant growing alongside our back door. We made dried arrangements of the latter that would stay colorful all winter long. Bittersweet also grew wild in the country. Before there were so many fences, we would go hunting for bittersweet along country roads. I fear very little of it exists today.When Memorial Day — or as we called it then, Decoration Day — came, I got to go along with Mom and Aunt Hattie as they transported armloads and baskets full of all kinds of blooms to the cemeteries in our hometown. It makes me a little sad to think of my dear Aunt Hattie’s grave now, which, more than likely, is without a flower upon it these later days. The family has either passed on or moved away. But I’m betting, where I believe she is now, there are many beautiful flowers blooming, with beauty and fragrance beyond our imagination. I’d be willing to bet she’s out picking around in them right now. I don’t know if there are weeds in heaven, but if there are, she’ll get ‘em.Harriett Gustason is a columnist for The Journal-Standard. She can be reached at 815-235-3855.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse EntertainmentlifeOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							Rockford Register Star  ~ 99 E. State St., Rockford, IL 61104 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.