AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets dribbles as Nikola Jokic (15) sets a screen on Patty Mills (8) of the San Antonio Spurs during the first quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostNikola Jokic (15) of the Denver Nuggets draws a double team from LaMarcus Aldridge (12) of the San Antonio Spurs and Jakob Poeltl (25) during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets gets the ball stolen on the final possession before passing half court by Derrick White (4) of the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostPaul Millsap (4) of the Denver Nuggets, Nikola Jokic (15) and Jamal Murray (27) prepare to be introduced against the San Antonio Spurs before the first quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostGary Harris (14) of the Denver Nuggets makes a three over Bryn Forbes (11) of the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDerrick White (4) of the San Antonio Spurs throws down on Paul Millsap (4) of the Denver Nuggets during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDerrick White (4) of the San Antonio Spurs celebrates throwing a dunk down on Paul Millsap (4) of the Denver Nuggets during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.DENVER, CO - APRIL 13: Paul Millsap (4) of the Denver Nuggets reacts to getting called for a foul on LaMarcus Aldridge (12) of the San Antonio Spurs, who lies on the floor as teammate DeMar DeRozan (10) speaks to him during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center. (Photo by AAron Ontiveroz/The Denver Post)AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostMichael Malone of the Denver Nuggets communicates with the referees during the fourth quarter of the San Antonio Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.Jamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets prepares for the San Antonio Spurs before the first half on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostWill Barton (5) of the Denver Nuggets prepares for the San Antonio Spurs before the first half on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets defends DeMar DeRozan (10) of the San Antonio Spurs during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostBryn Forbes (11) of the San Antonio Spurs drives on Paul Millsap (4) of the Denver Nuggets during the second quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostLaMarcus Aldridge (12) of the San Antonio Spurs controls the ball against Nikola Jokic (15) of the Denver Nuggets during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostGary Harris (14) of the Denver Nuggets lies on the ground after taking a hard foul against the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets defends Patty Mills (8) of the San Antonio Spurs during the first quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostPaul Millsap (4) of the Denver Nuggets checks his hand after taking a shot to the face against the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostQuincy Helsel rocks a Denver skyline before the first half between the Denver Nuggets and the San Antonio Spurs on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostA Denver Nuggets fan is dressed as the joker during the third quarter of the San Antonio Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDenver Nuggets fans file in as they prepare for the San Antonio Spurs during the first quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets gets hyped against the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets shows signs of frustration after not being able to force a turnover against the San Antonio Spurs during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDerrick White (4) of the San Antonio Spurs shoots over Gary Harris (14) of the Denver Nuggets during the first quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDerrick White (4) of the San Antonio Spurs lies on the ground after committing a foul on Torrey Craig (3) of the Denver Nuggets during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostGregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs speaks to a referee during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win over the Denver Nuggets on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostNikola Jokic (15) of the Denver Nuggets takes a breather against the San Antonio Spurs during the third quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostGary Harris (14) of the Denver Nuggets argues a call on teammate Paul Millsap (4), while playing the San Antonio Spurs during the second quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostJamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets dishes a pass as he draws a double team from Jakob Poeltl (25) of the San Antonio Spurs and DeMar DeRozan (10) during the first quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostWill Barton (5) of the Denver Nuggets blocks DeMar DeRozan (10) of the San Antonio Spurs during the second quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDeMar DeRozan (10) of the San Antonio Spurs takes a breather against the Denver Nuggets during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostRudy Gay (22) of the San Antonio Spurs drives past Nikola Jokic (15) of the Denver Nuggets during the second quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDeMar DeRozan (10) of the San Antonio Spurs reacts to taking an ill-advised shot with time on the shot clock against the Denver Nuggets during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostGary Harris (14) of the Denver Nuggets shoots over Jakob Poeltl (25) of the San Antonio Spurs during the second quarter on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostGary Harris (14) of the Denver Nuggets drives on Davis Bertans (42) of the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostBryn Forbes (11) of the San Antonio Spurs reacts to making a three down the stretch against the Denver Nuggets during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostWill Barton (5) of the Denver Nuggets takes a breather against the San Antonio Spurs during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver PostDeMar DeRozan (10) of the San Antonio Spurs and Patty Mills (8) react to clinching the game after a turnover by Jamal Murray (27) of the Denver Nuggets during the fourth quarter of the Spurs' 101-96 win on Saturday, April 13, 2019. The Denver Nuggets hosted the San Antonio Spurs during game one of the teams' first round NBA playoffs series at the Pepsi Center.Jamal Murray couldn’t have asked for a better look.Down 97-96, Murray had what could’ve been the game-winner at his fingertips. Instead, his midrange jumper was off, and the San Antonio Spurs landed the first punch with Saturday’s 101-96 win in Game 1.Game 2 is Tuesday night, but the Nuggets won’t have an easy time erasing this one.They got a triple-double out of their franchise star Nikola Jokic, who finished with 10 points, 14 rebounds and 14 assists. He sliced and split the San Antonio defense, but a 6-of-28 night from the 3-point line undermined Denver’s efforts. Murray finished with 17 points but missed all six of his 3-point attempts in an off shooting night.Gary Harris finished with a team-high 20 and came alive in the fourth quarter, but the Nuggets were never able to tie it despite ample opportunities. Denver will have to wait at least a few more days for its first postseason win since 2013.With the offense struggling, Will Barton assumed the role of aggressor in the third quarter. He nailed a 3-pointer and then finished a tough driving layup through traffic to draw the deficit to 62-59. The Nuggets’ 3-point shooting woes continued despite a trove of good looks, and they couldn’t tie it. But before the quarter was over, Jokic took a more determined approach on the offensive end and Denver entered the fourth down just 72-68. In total, they held the Spurs to just 13 points and woke up a Pepsi Center crowd begging to cheer on their team.The Nuggets couldn’t have defended San Antonio’s two stars, DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge much better. They combined for 12-of-36 for 33 points while the Nuggets defenders pressured their looks and made them uncomfortable.Heading into his first game as head coach of a playoff team, Nuggets coach Michael Malone wanted to set the right tone following Saturday’s shootaround.“I had Paul Millsap address our team this morning after shootaround and he was phenomenal,” Malone said. “Here’s a guy who has got 89 playoff games under his belt, talked about embracing the moment, looking around, enjoying it, taking pride in what we’ve done this year, and then going out there and just playing. This is not rocket science. This is still basketball.”Despite Gregg Popovich’s penchant for adjustments, Malone was adamant that his offense would be similar to the one that ranked seventh in the NBA throughout the regular season.“If I try to do something different, coach a different way, I think our players will be turned off and tune me out,” Malone said prior to the game. “So, it’s going to be more of the same. I’m going to approach it the same way, we’re going to play the same way.”* If necessary
From playoff-tested veterans to first-timers, that was the theme going into Game 1. Barton said the Nuggets couldn’t let Popovich’s aura affect their mindset.“It’s the biggest thing,” Barton said. “You can’t focus on nothing but our team.”Barton did concede that the Spurs are notorious for exposing mistakes and taking advantage of defensive lapses.“They play the right way,” he said. “They make the right play, every play. And they make you pay. We know we can’t mistakes.The first-quarter defensive slog turned into a barnburner before the second quarter was over. The Spurs’ 34-point second period paced their 59-51 halftime lead, which was built on 54 percent shooting. The margin would’ve been closer had the Nuggets not gone cold from outside, managing just 2 for 13 from 3-point range.Though Denver’s offense looked relatively tight to come out, four starters finished the first half with at least nine points. The only one who didn’t reach that benchmark was Jokic, who set everyone up instead. Jokic racked up 9 assists and 7 rebounds via the Nuggets’ patented dribble handoffs or high screen-and-roll actions.They did an excellent job of containing DeRozan and Aldridge, limiting the all-star combo to just 15 points in the first half. It was San Antonio’s rhythm from the 3-point line that kept the Nuggets’ defense off kilter. 