Camp Invention®, a nationally recognized, nonprofit summer enrichment camp program, is coming to Central Christian College the week of June 17.Camp Invention, a program of the National Inventors Hall of Fame in partnership with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, provides a unique experience for children to learn about the importance of intellectual property while exploring, creating and designing. Using hands-on activities, Camp Invention promotes science, technology, engineering and mathematics learning; builds confidence, leadership, perseverance, resourcefulness and problem-solving skills; and encourages entrepreneurship — in a fun and engaging environment.Each year, the program features a new curriculum inspired by some of our nation’s greatest inventors — the NIHF Inductees. For 2019, the Supercharged™ curriculum features video challenges from these Inductees encouraging children to be confident in their ideas and explore their ability to innovate. The hands-on modules include: Innovation Force®: Campers team up with the Innovation Force (NIHF Inductees who have been transformed into superheroes) to battle the evil Plagiarizer, a super-villain who is out to steal the world’s greatest ideas. As children create a device to retrieve the stolen ideas, they learn about the importance of intellectual property and the U.S. patent system.Deep Sea Mystery™: The children embark on a research adventure at sea to dig up fossils, but they soon find themselves stranded on an island. Using lessons and advice from NIHF Inductees, they invent island-survival tools and underwater equipment.Farm Tech™: Campers are put in charge of managing their own farm as they learn the basics of running a business. With the assistance of the Bot-ANN-E robot, they learn fundamental coding techniques to maximize their time and profits. Children also are introduced to DNA syntheses, where they perform their own mock experiment to check the health of their newly purchased cattle.DIY Orbot™: The children will explore frequency, circuit boards, motors and gears as they use real tools to reverse engineer a remote-control robot. Throughout the week, campers will adapt their DIY Orbot to perform increasingly challenging tasks. And at the end of the program, each camper will bring home a robot! Learn more about this year’s all-new curriculum.All local Camp Invention programs are facilitated and taught by certified educators who reside and teach in the community. Camp Invention serves more than 130,000 students every year and partners with 1,800 schools and districts across the United States. For more information, visit invent.org/camp.Camp Invention is the only nationally recognized summer program focused on creativity, innovation, real-world problem solving and the spirit of invention. Through hands-on programming, Camp Invention encourages children entering kindergarten through sixth grade to explore science, technology, engineering and mathematics curriculum inspired by some of the world's greatest inventors. Camp Invention is a program of the National Inventors Hall of Fame. This nationwide, nonprofit organization is committed to the curious minds and innovative spirits of the past, present and future. Since 1990, our education programs have served more than 1.5 million children, and 170,000 teachers and Leadership Interns. For more information, visit invent.org/camp.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse NewsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							The Kansan - Newton, KS  ~ 121 W. Sixth St., Newton, KS 67114 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.