
	A TEENAGE boy allegedly stole and drunk drove a ute with a six-metre trolley trailer attached from a Buddina shopping centre across the Sunshine Coast last night.

	A police chase began soon after officers allege they received reports about 7.10pm that a boy had stolen the ute from the shopping centre as an employee collected trollies.

	Witnesses allege the vehicle left north along the Nicklin Way with the trailer ramps down, dragging on the road an showering motorists with sparks.

	Soon after, Kawana Waters police spotted the vehicle and trailer near the Bruce Highway interchange and attempted to intercept it, but the driver allegedly failed to stop.

	Tyre spikes were eventually used to stop the vehicle in Palmview, after it allegedly travelled through red lights, southbund along the Bruce Highway and did a u-turn at Roy's Rd.

	The two front tyres were punctured and the alleged driver, a 17-year-old Gympie boy, was taken into custody at the scene.

	The boy allegedly returned a positive roadside breath analysis and was transported to Maroochydore Watchhouse where he produced a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.092 per cent.

	He was charged with four counts of wilful damage, two counts of unlawful use of a motor vehicle and one count each of dangerous operation of a motor vehicle, drink driving, evasion, public nuisance, and failing to comply with learner licence provisions.

	The boy will be dealt with under the provisions of the Youth Justice Act.
 Whats On

                    
                        "We want to show people tilapia so if they see one, they can dispose of it.”
                    
                 Property

                    
                        The Whitsunday Times property of the week
                    
                 Whats On

                    
                        Proserpine to pay tribute to those who have fought for their country
                    
                 Travel

                    
                        Ross is enjoying his time in Australia.
                    
                © Central Queensland News Publishing Company Pty Ltd 2019. Unauthorised reproduction is prohibited under the laws of Australia and by international treaty. Refer to our helpful FAQ section for any problems you might be experiencing.