America’s cops on the competition beat have grown lazy. They are not enforcing antitrust laws passed during the first Gilded Age to level a playing field tilted by powerful corporations for their own benefit; that’s why America is stuck in a second Gilded Age of economic inequality.
These officials have been lulled to sleep by decades of corporate-funded pseudo-economics. Democratic and Republican appointees alike at the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission have acted like laws passed to stop lawless corporate monstrosities like Standard Oil and the railroad trust from strong-arming competitors don’t apply in the 21st century.
As a result, companies like Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Google remain unchallenged while growing ever larger.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren’s technology platform reflects a common-sense populist rejoinder to that failed bipartisan consensus. If big corporations elbow the little guy, there is probably a rational reason for their corporate violence and it probably isn’t to benefit consumers or the broader economy. (Unless, of course, you like having your data stolen and traded like a commodity, believe startups should have no aspiration other than to be absorbed by a bigger company, or think small business is un-American and passé.)
American antitrust law is built upon the timeless insight that the ability of dominant corporations to sustain dominance unfairly threatens our economic and political liberty. Since unfettered corporations can entrench themselves unfairly, competition regulators should block both mergers and corporate practices that allow already powerful corporations to stifle would-be competitors.
Regulators have failed that critical task.
Did Amazon grow “naturally” from a plucky online bookseller to a trillion-dollar behemoth due primarily to brilliant innovation? No. As technology publication Wired demonstrated conclusively, Amazon grew via a two-decade-long acquisition spree, buying up competitors in an incredibly wide array of fields from media, robots and energy to logistics, groceries and artificial intelligence.
That kind of growth is exactly the kind of behavior antitrust law, interpreted properly, ought to prevent.
Similarly, millions of people have become so angry at Facebook that they have either quit the once ubiquitous platform or decreased their use considerably. Yet, Facebook hasn’t stopped tracking former users as they traipse across the internet, while many “quitters” now spend their time on “competitors” like Instagram or WhatsApp, which the Obama administration allowed Facebook to purchase.
Europe’s antitrust regulators have issued three massive fines totaling nearly $10 billion in the past two years against Google for exploiting its dominance to illegally injure competitors. Europe is outstripping the United States in its energetic law enforcement.
That backdrop of technology companies cheating competitors while buying bipartisan political influence helps make the scope of Warren’s vision clear. The Warren “administration would appoint regulators committed to reversing illegal and anti-competitive tech mergers.”
That means a Warren administration would undo the deals that allowed Google, Amazon and Facebook to “buy” the appearance of innovation while actually preventing fair competition from flowering.
Second, Warren would prevent future tech behemoths from forming by requiring “large tech platforms to be designated as ‘platform utilities’ and broken apart from any participant on that platform.” That means companies cannot manipulate to their own advantage any other platforms that they run.
Sen. Warren has a plan to rein in too-powerful tech giants and restore competition, raising the question: How will Warren’s competitors in the Democratic presidential primary respond to her plan?
 
Jeff Hauser is director of the Revolving Door Project, a project of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. This op-ed was distributed by InsideSources.com.
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse OpinionOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							GoUpstate  ~ 189 West Main Street, Spartanburg, SC 29306 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of ServiceChoose the plan that’s right for you. Digital access or digital and print delivery.