SA's three biggest cities are absorbing some of the tariff hike to pass on lower increases to beleaguered residents.Morning clouds. Mild.Pelane Phakgadi(File, Tebogo Letsie/City Press)
Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said that EFF president Julius Malema was talking "fables" on claims that he would lose the ANC internal battle during the party's national general council (NGC).Malema on Wednesday said that attempts by Ramaphosa to remove Mokonyane as a minister would be met with questions relating to the president himself over issues such as corruption accused company Bosasa and Marikana.And because of this, "he won't finish his term," Malema said about Ramaphosa.According to Timeslive, Ramaphosa said that Malema was just like those who had said he was going to lose in the ANC conference in Nasrec where he was elected president.Ramaphosa was talking on the sidelines of an ANC rally held in Swaneville in Kagiso on the West Rand on Saturday."The ANC is ready to vomit someone, and it will be him," Malema said.He added that Ramaphosa was between a rock and a hard place."There are fables, all sorts of fables as there were fables as we were going to Nasrec saying 'that one is history he will never win and is going to be crushed'," said Ramaphosa."There are many fables around town but what we do is to carry on with the work we have been given by our conference, that is all that guides me."READ: ANC backs just, equitable compensation for landThe media house said that ANC acting spokesperson Dakota Lekgoete added that Malema's assertion was just "wishful thinking".In an opinion piece, Melanie Verwoerd that Zuma's supporters in the governing party argue Ramaphosa's win by 179 votes at the Nasrec conference was unconvincing.The ANC holds a national general council no later than 30 months after the national conference.The ANC holds a national general council (NGC) no later than 30 months after the national conference.Verwoerd argues that a faction belonging to former president Jacob Zuma are increasingly claiming that the victory was "stolen" due to the disqualification of 220-odd delegates on the first day of the conference, following various court cases in the weeks leading up to the conference.Ramaphosa told those at the rally that his party was  aware of the challenge of unemployment facing young people."It is a challenge that pains us and we are working hard to resolve. By working to attract investment, we will create jobs."Some residents have told Eyewitness News although they are ANC supporters, they are unhappy and unsure of whether they will vote on 8 May.Ramaphosa said he also listed to the concerns of the residents, which included proper housing.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.We are here for this!Diana, Victoria, Arthur or James? The countdown to Royal baby Sussex is on.Meet 'black-ish' star Marsai Martin. And the collection is all about the strong, confident women.Here's why: 7 Chefs for the perfect pasta bowl. 
Can you guess where?This instructor has no intention of slowing down anytime soon. Vanrhynsdorp NorthSanlam Life Insurance LtdMosselbaaiADA Recruitment & HR SolutionsHouses
R 2 200 000Houses
R 1 595 000Houses
R 9 500 000Press Code
        We subscribe to the Press Code.
        E-mail Newsletters
        You choose what you want 
        News24 on Android
        Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.
        Terms and Conditions
        24.com Terms and Conditions - Updated April 2012
        Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.
                            News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.
                            If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a
                            location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to
                            take affect.
Hi News addict,

                        Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
                    
                        Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.
                    