
			Trending:		The party line being put out to the press nowadays is that Felicity Huffman is sincerely “ashamed for the pain she caused” in this collegiate fraud scheme. To compound the fiasco, this Ronn Torossian character of 5W Public Relations opines Huffman’s transgressions will soon be forgotten by all, given this “heartfelt apology” of hers.Further, that Huffman’s contrition will resonate with the American people given the public’s understanding of this sincere desire to help her daughter get into college. And, yes, according to Torossian, Huffman eventually will have the public’s empathy in the future despite these current “misgivings.” What a bunch of nonsense!Plain and simple: Huffman and her Hollywood-elitist cronies, who perceive of themselves better than the rest of us in America’s hinterland, cooked up this ruse with their Hollywood handler to get their undeserving spoiled brats into college at the expense of those who actually deserve the collegiate experience.Yes, Huffman is currently publicly ashamed. But that’s only because she got caught  attempting to “game the system!” And nary a word would have been said had she gotten away with the scam.As the woman is an actress, she of course acts. And this “ashamed” stunt of hers is nothing more than just that … another “Hollywood act.”— Earl Beal, Terre Haute, Ind.This is in response to DA Rachael Rollins’ decision to not prosecute certain crimes in Suffolk County. Didn’t she take an oath to uphold the laws of the commonwealth? If she doesn’t like them she should have run for state Rep. or file a petition to change them. It’s not up to her to determine which laws she enforces and which ones she doesn’t. Which criminal acts will she add to her list next?Rollins goes on to say that these policies will enable law enforcement to focus on more important crimes. What does she say to the victims of these lesser crimes? This will also lead to more of those crimes and embolden the criminals to more violent crimes if they’re not punished for low level crimes. It’s actually counterintuitive to what she is trying to accomplish.Our lawmakers need to stand up to this policy by Rollins. Any DA who doesn’t prosecute crimes is the one “disrespecting the DA’s office” and law abiding citizens.— Lou Valanzola, RocklandThe T’s decision to go cashless is one of the worst things it could ever do. Cash and the cash refillable Charlie Card are usually used by people who do not have much money and have irregular schedules.The cash refillable Charlie Card is important because, unlike a pass, the money on it can be carried over virtually forever.The T says going cashless will stop the theft of money by its employees. This is a case of the T foisting off its problems onto its customers. The mere fact that there is enough money worth stealing shows the high use of cash to ride the T.The T says that cash slows down boarding the bus or streetcar. Well, what I see on buses is: 1) Most cash customers let the Charlie Pass customers go first. 2) Many customers are so adept at loading their Charlie cash cards at the fare box that they take almost no time. 3) Usually, people put on enough money for several rides (for example, a $10 bill would be good for 4 more $2 rides).Fortunately the T will keep using the Charlie Card/Pass. It uses a sophisticated, proven, reliable technology. All of the intelligence is in the card. It can be used to track how much cash is left or as a pass that knows if it is good for this month.The T claims it will be convenient to fill up the card at a local store. Someone trying to catch the last bus at 1 a.m. might disagree.The T board’s wise decision to keep the bus fare at $2 makes it easy to continue to use cash on buses. I hope they vote to continue to use the cash fare box as well.— Eugene R. Gobby, SomervilleSign up for email newsletters