Boys lacrosseMiddletown 10, Coventry 5Owen Moy made 17 saves and two-time defending Division II champion Middletown pushed its winning streak to three as it defeated host Coventry 10-5 on Friday.“Owen was dynamite,” Middletown coach Neal Harrell said. “But I didn’t realize how good a performance he had until I looked at the stats after the game.”Moy played well and the Islanders won but Harrell was not pleased with all aspects of their game.“Any time two teams combine for almost 50 ground balls in a game, you know it’s been sloppy. But sometimes you’ve got to win ugly,” Harrell said. “Thirteen minutes of penalty time is unacceptable. That’s more than a quarter of lacrosse we played man down. You don’t win a lot of ball games that way.”Ben Dickinson scored four goals and assisted on one to pace the offense while Sage Chapman scored two goals and had an assist and Chris Silva scored two goals.“We moved Chris Silva from attack to midfield last week,” Harrell said. “He showed us some things we liked at practice and it carried over to Friday with a two-goal game.”Alex Ripa and Anthony Lewis notched a goal each, Andy Skirzenski had two assists and Lewis had one assist. Dan Sullivan did not get on the scoreboard but was Middletown’s most valuable player.“He’s a natural athlete who came over from hockey, and man are we lucky to have him,” Harrell said. “Big, quick, smart - he’s got a bright future in lacrosse if he continues to develop at this pace.”Portsmouth 19, South Kingstown 11Host Portsmouth put on a second-half surge as it rolled past South Kingstown 19-11 on Friday in a Division II match.The Patriots trailed by a goal at halftime before awakening and outscoring the Rebels 13-4 in the second half. Liam Cooney and Jack Cianciolo each scored six goals and combined for five assists to lead Portsmouth’s offense. Connor Little made nine saves as the Patriots (3-0) stayed unbeaten while handing the Rebels (4-1) their first setback.Wyatt Huggins had four goals and an assist, Cade McHugh had two goals and two assists and Marcus Evans had a goal and five assists. Charlie Mottur tallied three assists and Will Hayes and Jaxon Kane had an assist apiece.Phillips Exeter 9, Portsmouth Abbey 4Phillips Exeter Academy downed host Portsmouth Abbey 9-4 on Saturday.Nick Solomon had a goal and assist and Dan Neill, Chris Franco and Lucas Cobery each scored once. Greg Oakes had nine saves in net and Tommy Murphy, Andrew Busch and Toby Oliveira played well against a strong attack unit while midfielders Josh Plumb and Will Crowley also played well.BaseballPortsmouth 1, Lincoln 0MT Morrissey came within an out of pitching a complete game and Tim McGuire knocked in the game’s lone run as Portsmouth edged Lincoln 1-0 on Friday in a Division I game in Lincoln.Morrissey allowed just two hits and struck out eight before leaving with a man on base and two outs in the seventh inning. Portsmouth relief pitcher Will Pierce allowed a hit and runners were on second and third when Pierce got the last out of the game.McGuire’s single in the fifth inning drove home Robbie Yates with the lone run and Andrew Preuit had a double for Portsmouth’s only other hit. Portsmouth’s record went to 2-2.Exeter-West Greenwich 3, Rogers 1Rogers played well but host Exeter-West Greenwich played better as it defeated the Vikings 3-1 on Friday.“It was just one of those games,” Rogers coach Matt Kestler said. “We hit the ball very hard, just right at them. For their part, they did make a few nice plays. I believe we only stuck out twice, so obviously we were on the ball. We'll get them next time.”Pitchers Ryan Crowley and Jack Gomes combined to allow just four hits for the Vikings. Edwin Connelly had three hits, a stolen base and the only RBI and Billy Lavigueur had a hit and stolen base.Portsmouth Abbey 13, Beaver Country Day 0 (5)Portsmouth Abbey scored 10 runs in the fifth inning as it defeated Beaver Country Day 13-0 on Saturday in Newton, Massachusetts.Dan McKenna had a three-run homer among his three hits and Dan Teravainen hit a two-run homer. Matt Spear had a two-run single and pitcher Joe Parella struck out nine for the Ravens (4-2-1).SoftballPortsmouth 20, Tiverton 1 (5)Portsmouth scored 20 runs in four at-bats as it defeated host Tiverton 20-1 on Friday in a Division II game.Brooke Whitmarsh went 5-for-5 with three doubles and five RBIs, Emily Colicci went 4-for-4 with a double and RBI and Lauren Conley had two doubles, two singles and five RBIs to pace Portsmouth.Conley pitched a complete game and struck out five. Portsmouth’s Ella Daly had two doubles and a single and Gabby Schenck and Marissa Levreault had two hits each. Emma Franklin and Ella Schneider each had a hit for Tiverton.Rogers 14, West Warwick 2Rogers pitcher Shannon Ward struck out 16 batters, smacked a three-run homer among her three hits and knocked in five runs as the Vikings defeated host West Warwick 14-2 on Friday.Kenzie Palmer went 3-for-3 with a double and two runs, Jamie Ward had a double, single and RBI, Lilly Bestoso had a triple, single and two runs and Ani Murphy had a two-run double in the Vikings nine-run seventh inning. Rogers now sits at 4-0 in Division II.Westerly 11, Middletown 1Host Westerly scored five runs in the fifth inning to bring the game to a halt as it defeated Middletown 11-1 on Friday in a Division II contest. Kate Home triple and scored on a throwing error for Middletown’s lone run as the Islanders slipped to 1-3.Girls lacrossePonaganset 16, Tiverton 11Taylor Craig scored five goals but it wasn’t enough as Tiverton fell to Ponaganset 16-11 in Tiverton on Friday night.The Tigers trailed 9-5 at halftime and couldn’t make up the difference in the second half as they went to 1-2 in Division III. Mariah Ramos scored three goals, Kate Zmich had two goals and Arianna Helger had a goal. Kayley Nagle, Lauran Wilson and Lauren Bowdren each had an assist and goalie Emma Lopes made 16 saves.Smithfield 11, Rogers 3Rogers had problems getting its offense going as it fell to Smithfield 11-3 in a Division II match in Newport on Saturday afternoon.The Vikings trailed 5-1 at halftime and the second half was more of the same. Emma Leach scored two goals, Grace Burgess had a goal and Tess Nunes made 11 saves for the Vikings.Girls trackVikings place fourthRogers finished fourth out of 18 teams that vied in the Class C Injury Fund Meet at Exeter-West Greenwich recently. Rogers had four second-place finishes, a fourth-place finish and a pair of fifth-place finishes to earn its team standing.Chelsey Hazel, Sid Johnson, Hazel Peters and Kiara Butler combined to finish second in the 4x100 relay with a time of 54 seconds. Jessie Russell, Rachel Alves, Khatima Bulmer and Catherine Carwile-Ridnour were the runners-up in the 4x400 with a time of 5 minutes, 19.7 seconds.The triple jump relay team of Meghan McKenna, Abi Mosher and Laina Potts also placed second as did the high jump duo of Frankie Underwood and Mosher.Ravens splitPortsmouth Abbey scored 57 points as it topped Landmark (47.5) and Concord (39)while losing to Winsor (120) and Pingree (90.5) on Saturday in Portsmouth.Margot Appleton won the 1,500 with a time of 4 minutes, 46.4 seconds and the 800 (2:29.4) while Ravens teammate Abbey Jackson won the pole vault (6 feet, 6 inches). Cecilia Banderob's runner-up finish in the 400 meters (1:03) left her No. 7 all-time in the event for Portsmouth Abbey.Boys trackPortsmouth Abbey sweepsHost Portsmouth Abbey totaled 108 team points as it defeated Concord (64), Pingree (50) and Landmark (39) and Saturday.David Appleton was the only double-winner from any team in the meet, winning the 1,500 with a time of 4 minutes, 21 seconds and the 800. Other winners for the Raves were: Connor McGeehan in the long jump (18 feet, 9 inches); Ben Kendall in the high jump (5-10); Jason Lim in the pole vault (10-0); Tiger Farah in the 300 hurdles (46.2) and Luke O'Reilly in the 200 (24.3). Appleton and Farah teamed with David Sun and Nolan O'Reilly to take the 4x400 relay (3:51.2).
							Choose the plan that's right for you.
							Digital access or digital and print delivery.
						© Copyright 2006-2019 GateHouse Media, LLC. All rights reserved  •  GateHouse SportsOriginal content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
							The Newport Daily News  ~ 272 Valley Road, Middletown, RI 02842 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service