
					Posted by Lucas Kauffman on Apr 15th, 2019 // Comments off Ridgewood Investments LLC raised its holdings in  Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF (NYSEARCA:BSV) by 3.4% during the 1st quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The institutional investor  owned 5,971 shares of the company’s stock after purchasing an additional 196 shares during the period. Ridgewood Investments LLC’s holdings in Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF were worth $475,000 at the end of the most recent reporting period. Several other large investors have also recently added to or reduced their stakes in BSV. Capital Investment Advisory Services LLC bought a new stake in  Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF during the 4th quarter worth approximately $30,000.  Mackey Komara & Dankovich LLC bought a new position in  Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF during the 4th quarter worth $31,000.  Next Capital Management LLC bought a new position in shares of  Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF in the fourth quarter worth $32,000.  Pin Oak Investment Advisors Inc. bought a new position in shares of  Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF in the fourth quarter worth $36,000.  Finally, ERTS Wealth Advisors LLC acquired a new stake in shares of  Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF during the fourth quarter valued at about $52,000. Shares of NYSEARCA BSV traded down $0.01 during midday trading on Monday, hitting $79.24. 10,373 shares of the stock traded hands, compared to its average volume of 2,885,058. Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF has a one year low of $77.66 and a one year high of $79.73.  WARNING: This report was first  published by Chaffey Breeze and is the sole property of of Chaffey Breeze. If you are viewing this report on another domain, it was stolen and reposted in violation of US & international trademark and copyright law. The original version of this report can be accessed at https://www.chaffeybreeze.com/2019/04/15/ridgewood-investments-llc-increases-position-in-vanguard-short-term-bond-etf-bsv.html. About Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETFVanguard Short-Term Bond ETF (the Fund) seeks to track the performance of a market-weighted bond index with a short-term, dollar-weighted average maturity. The Fund employs a passive management or indexing strategy designed to track the performance of the Barclays Capital U.S. 1-5 Year Government/Credit Bond Index (the Index).Recommended Story: How to calculate the annual rate of depreciationReceive News & Ratings for Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Vanguard Short-Term Bond ETF and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.Westbourne Investment Advisors Inc. Sells 2,025 Shares of Devon Energy Corp (DVN)DAPPSTER Price Down 3.3% Over Last Week (DLISK)