Former "Teen Mom" star Ryan Edwards is a free man again ... after spending nearly 3 months behind bars following his arrest for allegedly skipping out on a bar tab.According to sources at the Hamilton County Jail in Tennessee ... Edwards was released Monday for time served. We're told he was originally sentenced to serve until November, but the judge cut it short. He'd been locked up since late January after cops arrested him for theft of services under $1,000.We broke the story ... Ryan spent a winter afternoon at Bud's bar in Chattanooga and racked up a $36 bill for 6 Jack Daniel's whiskey, but allegedly walked out without forking over the money.The bartender called police, who recognized Edwards' face from photos in their Criminal Justice Portal and went and picked him up.Ryan's mug shot was in the portal for prior offenses ... including drug possession and a probation violation.Ryan and his wife, Mackenzie Standifer, announced their exit from 'Teen Mom' in 2018 after revealing she was pregnant with their first child. She gave birth to a baby boy in October.He has another son with fellow 'Teen Mom' star, Maci Bookout. HERE'S THE RUNDOWN Kim Kardashian Gets Support From O.J. Dream Team Lawyer Jason Momoa's Shocking New Look Mayor Pete: Here's Who I'd Pick to Play Inauguration Adam Levine's Epic Mansion for Sale  "I think prosecutors in this country should have something much better to do." That's Robert Shapiro -- a famous piece of O.J. Simpson's dream team -- going scorched Earth on prosecutors…
Telepictures and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.
may use my email address along with my interests and device data to send me tailored email and other offers
through social media or other sites and apps.

          Yes! Telepictures and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. may also share those details
          with WB/Time Warner
          Affiliates so they may send me tailored email and other offers.
          Telepictures and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. are requesting this consent on behalf of their affiliates, 
          which will use the information under their respective privacy policies.
    Opt out at any time by sending email to 
   privacy@wb.com, by
   mail to "Privacy Group, Warner Bros., 4000 Warner Blvd, Burbank, CA 91522," or by
   unsubscribing via a link in the email. By submitting my email address, I agree to the 
   Terms of Service and I acknowledge 
    that I have read and understand the Privacy Policy.
