San Francisco will modestly expand the number of rental e-scooters allowed on city streets with an option to eventually double the total complement to 2,500 if scooter operators sign up additional low-income riders.Starting immediately, Scoot and Skip, the two San Francisco startups with permits to operate here, can each add 175 scooters to their fleets, which currently number 625 per company. As part of that permission, each operator must recruit at least 150 riders for a program that provides half-price ridership for low-income people.Once either company boosts its low-income riders to 500 members, it can rent out an additional 450 scooters. If both do so, that would bring the number in San Francisco to 2,500, the maximum allowed by the yearlong pilot program that started Oct. 15. Currently Scoot has 68 low-income riders and Skip has 78, according to the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency, which oversees the pilot.“That’s not sufficient for what we want to see in San Francisco for an equitable program,” said Jamie Parks, SFMTA director of livable streets. “That’s why we’ve pushed them to increase the number of low-income riders.”A survey of about 1,700 scooter riders found that they are disproportionately male (82 percent), white (63 percent) and affluent (68 percent with household incomes over $100,000).The SFMTA is requiring that each company offer at least 450 devices a day for 25 out of 30 consecutive days. That appears aimed at Scoot, which for several months held back many of its scooters from rental because of rampant theft. Both Scoot and Skip now have built-in locks, which deter theft and help ensure proper parking. San Francisco is the first city where all rental e-scooters have locks.In addition, Scoot and Skip must implement processes for resolving safety complaints and must increase rider education around safety, especially helmet use and the ban on sidewalk riding.California passed a law last year that allows adults to ride e-scooters without helmets.“Even though the law has changed, we feel it’s a very good idea to wear a helmet, and we’re asking operators to help do that,” Parks said.Overall, the agency is pleased by the scooter pilot, which was developed to control the two-wheelers after several companies, Bird, Lime and Spin, unleashed thousands of them here a year ago, leading to a temporary ban.“We’re really encouraged that over 40 percent of riders said if not for scooters, they would have driven or taken Uber or Lyft — that’s a direct shift from cars encouraging pollution to a much more low-impact form of travel,” said Tom Maguire, SFMTA director of sustainable streets.Not all San Franciscans embrace the scooter phenomenon. Nancy Thompson, who’s lived on Telegraph Hill for 32 years, said she considers them an ongoing problem.“People ride them on the sidewalks and zip through stop signs,” she said. “If you tell them that it’s illegal to ride on sidewalks, they say nasty things. It’s very inconsiderate.”Once the pilot concludes in mid-October, San Francisco will implement a new structure for scooter rentals based on feedback from the pilot. The transportation agency is working to create a new permit application before then, so that the rollout can occur more quickly.A dozen companies had vied to be part of the pilot program. Several of the spurned candidates, including Lime, Ford’s Spin and Uber’s Jump, appealed their rejections and had hoped to be considered for the pilot’s second half. The agency said it is sticking with its original decision to limit the pilot to two companies.Carolyn Said is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: csaid@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @csaidCarolyn Said covers the on-demand economy (new marketplaces such as Uber, TaskRabbit and Airbnb that let people rent their time, goods and services), the impacts of automation and AI on labor, and the world of autonomous vehicles.  Previously she covered the housing market and foreclosure crisis, winning awards for stories that shed light on the human impact of sweeping economic trends. As a business reporter at The Chronicle since 1997, she also has covered the dot-com rise and fall, the California energy crisis, the corporate malfeasance scandals, and the fallout from economic downturns.AboutContactServices