AdvertisementSupported byThe Daily NewsletterWaiting for the Mueller report.By Michael Barbaro[Update: Robert Mueller has submitted his full report on President Trump and Russia to the attorney general. Read more here.]It could be any day now.After nearly two years, 34 indictments or guilty pleas, and countless angry presidential tweets, the Mueller report, we are told, could be winding down.When Robert Mueller finally sends his findings to the attorney general, what will we do? It depends, in part, on when that happens. For some big stories that have broken outside our typical production schedule — like on a Friday — we’ve put out special editions, a kind of emergency show. We did that when President Trump fired Steve Bannon, his closest White House adviser; when Trump’s national security adviser Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I.; and when the president bragged to Russian diplomats about firing F.B.I. director James Comey, saying it would take the heat off the Russia investigation.We don’t yet know when the report will land, but we’ve approached this story feeling that our greatest responsibility is to set the right expectations. That’s why we did something we’ve never done before: a series of explanatory episodes designed to set the table for the Mueller report — how its release could happen (or not happen), what it might conclude (or not conclude), and what it would trigger next (or not trigger next).The series is called “What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report),” a nod to Heidi Murkoff and Sharon Mazel’s ubiquitous parenting guide. It began with an explanation of rules surrounding the report’s handoff from the special counsel to the attorney general. It then explored Mueller’s options for recommending charges against President Trump, and concluded with the role of Congress’s oversight committees.The worst thing we, as journalists, can do in moments like this is leave you unprepared to process a historic moment. We hope that if you listen to the series, you’ll feel ready for what the next few days, weeks and months will bring.Talk to Michael on Twitter: @mikiebarb.“There’s an entire generation of people who have been exposed to radical extremist politics online.” Kevin Roose on how the internet played a role in the New Zealand mosque attacks.Boeing wanted to avoid expensive training for pilots flying its new line of airplanes. Then, two of those planes crashed.The “Trump of the Tropics” met with President Trump at the White House this week. Who is Brazil’s far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro, and how did he come to power?A second person appears to have been cured of H.I.V., something that scientists had almost given up on. We talk to an activist about what this means, and about his own journey with H.I.V.It took New Zealand just six days to ban assault rifles after a gunman killed 50 people in the mosque shootings last week.When news broke earlier this month that a second patient had been cured of H.I.V., we knew we wanted to do a story about the three decades it took to get to this point. As we explored that history, producer Jonathan Wolfe called up Timothy Ray Brown, known as the Berlin patient, who, until recently, was the only person to ever be cured. Here’s an excerpt from their conversation:When asked what it would be like to hear that a cure for H.I.V. had been found at last, AIDS activist Peter Staley described a scene from the movie “Longtime Companion”: “It’s like a big gay disco. But it’s everybody we’ve lost, and they’re just celebrating. It might be like that.”That moment from Thursday’s episode struck a chord with Stacy Brink, a listener from Charlotte, N.C. And her response struck a chord with us. “As I listened to Mr. Staley, I imagined hearing my father’s voice. My father who died of AIDS in 1986 when I was 7 years old. My father who loved Billy Joel and made the best French toast. My father in his blue robe. My father who I was unable to hug or kiss or lie next to because the doctors feared I would be ‘contaminated.’ Thank you, Mr. Staley, for fighting and for your courage. I look forward to dancing with my dad at the gay disco when we finally have a cure.”For the biggest stories of our time, told by New York Times journalists each weekday, listen to “The Daily.” You can find it at nytimes.com/thedaily or wherever you get your podcasts.Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.Want to get this by email? Here’s the sign-up.Advertisement