AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason GutierrezMANILA — A former high-ranking official in the Philippine National Police says he reported more than a year ago that two Chinese associates of President Rodrigo Duterte were involved in drug trafficking, and that the president has taken no action against them despite his well-known crusade against illegal narcotics.Mr. Duterte has denied the accusations. The former official, Eduardo Acierto, a senior superintendent who was dismissed from the force last year over corruption allegations, has produced no evidence to support them, other than photos of the president with two men who he says are the drug suspects.Mr. Acierto, apparently the highest-ranking police officer to have accused the popular president of wrongdoing, said he had received death threats and gone into hiding. On Sunday, he met with a group of journalists, including one for The New York Times, in Manila, where he showed his photos of Mr. Duterte with the men, apparently taken on a number of different occasions.“If this is going to be the reason for my death, that’s fine,” said Mr. Acierto, a 27-year veteran of the police force. “At least I have shared it with you already.”Mr. Acierto, who once led the force’s anti-narcotics division, said he submitted a report to his superiors in December of 2017 warning that two Chinese nationals who knew Mr. Duterte were suspected of involvement with narcotics. One of the two men, named Michael Yang, later became a presidential adviser, although he lost that status last year, Mr. Duterte’s office has confirmed.But Mr. Duterte and officials in his government have denied that Mr. Yang is involved with drugs. In a speech on Tuesday, Mr. Duterte said Mr. Yang was a telecommunications businessman whose enterprises in the southern Philippines had created many jobs. He accused Mr. Acierto of corruption and various crimes.“Why would I give importance to his report?” he said. “He should have done his job.”Mr. Acierto was dismissed from the force last year over a scandal involving illegitimate licenses for assault rifles. He was one of several officers accused of issuing such licenses, for weapons that reportedly ended up in the hands of Communist insurgents. He refused to discuss the matter on Sunday, saying it was being litigated.Aaron Aquino, the head of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency, confirmed that he had received Mr. Acierto’s report on the two Chinese men in 2017 and sent it on to Mr. Duterte’s office. He said Mr. Yang and the other man named in the report did not appear to be on any of the lists of supposed drug suspects, many of them in positions of authority, that Mr. Duterte has made public in the past.Mr. Acierto, however, said that Mr. Yang was involved with a methamphetamine manufacturing operation in the southern city of Davao as early as 2004. The other man named in the report worked with him, he said. At the time, Mr. Duterte was the mayor of Davao.Mr. Acierto said he was not sure whether Mr. Duterte had known about Mr. Yang’s alleged involvement in drugs before he submitted his report. But in light of the report, he said, if Mr. Duterte “really was angry at the proliferation of drugs, why did he not have these people investigated or arrested?”Attempts to contact Mr. Yang have been unsuccessful.Mr. Acierto said he believed that Mr. Duterte’s war on drugs — in which police officers and vigilantes have killed thousands of people, the vast majority of them poor — should focus on major players in the drug trade, including syndicates with ties to China and Taiwan. He said he believed he had been threatened for implicating two such higher-ups.“It is unusual for big personalities involved in illegal drugs to be caught or killed,” he said.Officials in Mr. Duterte’s government said they would take another look at the Chinese nationals named in Mr. Acierto’s report, even as they disputed his allegations.Salvador Panelo, Mr. Duterte’s spokesman, said it was easy for anyone to have a photo taken with the president, and he accused opposition figures of being behind what he called a “political stunt.” He said Mr. Acierto’s report had never been “validated” by the country’s then-police chief, Ronald dela Rosa, a longtime aide to Mr. Duterte.“The president would never tolerate anyone involved in drugs regardless of stature or relationship with him,” Mr. Panelo said in an interview. “That policy is inflexible.”It is not clear where Mr. Acierto is staying, but some of the people with him on Sunday were connected to the Catholic Church, a powerful institution in the Philippines that has been critical of Mr. Duterte’s drug war. Several bishops have also recently said that they had received death threats and speculated that they came from people linked to the government.In his speech on Tuesday, in the southern city of Koronadal, Mr. Duterte tore into Mr. Acierto, calling him an “idiot” and accusing him of involvement in drug smuggling himself, along with various other crimes.“Don’t ever believe especially this Acierto,” Mr. Duterte said. “What if I ask the military and the police, ‘Why is this son of a bitch still alive?’”Advertisement