AdvertisementSupported byBy Najim Rahim and Fahim AbedMAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan — At least 100 Afghan soldiers abandoned their posts and fled imminent capture by the Taliban by crossing the country’s border into neighboring Turkmenistan, only to face immediate expulsion, Afghan officials said on Saturday.It was the latest in a series of insurgent attacks in the hotly contested Bala Murghab district, where an entire Afghan Army company was killed or captured  on Monday. By Saturday, its defenders said the district had mostly fallen into Taliban control.Afghan officials gave varying accounts of what happened Saturday, with some saying the soldiers would be returned to safety by Turkmenistan, and others that they had been forced back by the Turkmenistan Army into a no man’s land, a 500-yard-wide strip between border fences. And some said the soldiers had been forced back into Taliban hands by day’s end.Saleh Mohammad Mubarez, the commander of the Afghan local police in the district, said that 140 soldiers from the Afghan Border Police, a military unit, had fled toward Turkmenistan after two days of Taliban attacks on bases in the Morichaq area.“The situation is very bad: The district is on the verge of collapse,” Mr. Mubarez said. “The reinforcements have not been enough. The air force must help and launch airstrikes.”Qais Mangal, a spokesman for the Afghan Ministry of Defense, confirmed that the soldiers had fled toward Turkmenistan but insisted that they were “within Afghanistan.” Jamshid Shahabi, a spokesman for the Badghis provincial governor, said the soldiers had fled as part of a previously arranged security plan.Others described a more dire situation.Habibullah, an army officer on the battlefield who like many Afghans uses one name, said that after heavy pressure on two bases, 20 soldiers had surrendered to the Taliban and more than 100 fled to the Turkmenistan border. “We lost contact with them,” he said.Farid Akhezi, a member of the Badghis provincial council, said 12 Afghan border posts had been abandoned, with 50 soldiers surrendering to the Taliban and 100 others fleeing into Turkmenistan. He said that country’s army forced them back, so they surrendered to the insurgents late on Saturday.Most of soldiers were said by local officials to be part of the Afghan Border Police, which is part of the Afghan military. Mr. Mangal, however, said they were local irregular militiamen, not soldiers.The Taliban wiped out an entire Afghan National Army company in the same district on Monday, killing 16 soldiers and taking 40 prisoner. Over the course of the week, 36 Afghan security force members were confirmed killed in Taliban assaults in Badghis Province.A Taliban spokesman, Qari Yousuf Ahmadi, claimed that the insurgents had now captured the Morichaq area. “More than 30 soldiers surrendered to the Taliban,” Mr. Ahmadi said. “The remaining soldiers tried to cross the border, but Turkmenistan’s border forces did not allow them.”Najim Rahim reported from Mazar-i-Sharif and Fahim Abed from Kabul. Reporting was contributed by Mohammed Saber in Herat and Rod Nordland and Naseer Rahin in Kabul.Advertisement