AdvertisementSupported byBy William K. Rashbaum[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The 24-year-old man charged with killing a senior leader of the Gambino crime family in Staten Island told detectives that he was high on marijuana and shot the crime figure because he feared for his life, according to two law enforcement officials with knowledge of the matter.But the man, Anthony Comello, gave several conflicting accounts about what happened the night the reputed mobster, Francesco Cali, was fatally shot, and investigators have been unable to corroborate many of his statements or to establish a motive for the shooting, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open investigation.At an initial court appearance on Monday afternoon in Ocean County, N.J., Mr. Comello held up a palm on which he had scribbled “United We Stand,” and “M.A.G.A. forever,” as well as a circle and “U.S.A.”During the 15-minute hearing, Mr. Comello smiled several times and seemed calm as he signed papers waiving his right to an extradition hearing “without reference to guilt or innocence.” Ocean County prosecutors said he would be transferred to New York within 10 days.Mr. Comello was arrested in Brick Township, N.J., on Saturday morning and spoke to investigators for “quite some time” before retaining a lawyer, making statements that were recorded on videotape, a third person with knowledge of the matter said on Monday.He faces murder, weapons and assault charges in the death of Mr. Cali, who was shot at close range on Wednesday night in front of his house in the Todt Hill section of Staten Island.While the police have said the investigation is still in its early stages, several law enforcement officials have said the killing does not appear to be mob-related. In his recorded statements to New York detectives, Mr. Comello gave conflicting accounts of what happened, but put himself at the murder scene, according to the two officials.Mr. Comello told detectives on Saturday that he had a romantic interest in one of Mr. Cali’s female relatives and that Mr. Cali had told him to stay away, the officials said. He also said that he was high on marijuana at the time and shot Mr. Cali because he feared the crime figure had a gun and would shoot him.He stopped talking to the detectives, who were questioning him in Ocean County, after his lawyer, Robert C. Gottlieb, was retained to represent him.Mr. Gottlieb said in the statement that the accusations against his client were a severe departure from the conduct his family and friends had come to expect from him.“The people who know him best, his family and friends, cannot believe what they are hearing,” Mr. Gottlieb said. “There is something very wrong here and we will get to the bottom of it.”The police have said Mr. Comello lured Mr. Cali out of his house by backing his pickup truck into Mr. Cali’s Cadillac Escalade and then ringing the doorbell, apparently to tell him about the incident. A surveillance camera near the front door, one official has said, captured a clear image of Mr. Comello’s face.Several law enforcement officials have said that the slaying itself was also captured on surveillance video, and the two men were seen talking, apparently calmly.Then the gunman picked up the Escalade’s license plate, which had been knocked off in the fender bender, and handed it to Mr. Cali before he opened fire. Mr. Comello’s fingerprints were found on the license plate, the officials said.Mr. Comello’s life may be threatened in jail because of the reach of the Gambino crime family, officials said. His lawyer said in a statement that Mr. Comello “has been placed in protective custody, where he will remain while this case is pending.” Mr. Comello will be arraigned next Monday, in Staten Island. If he is held without bail after his arraignment, the New York City Department of Correction also will keep him in protective custody, officials said.Karen DeMasters and Sean Piccoli contributed reporting.Follow William K. Rashbaum on Twitter: @WRashbaumAdvertisement