AdvertisementSupported byBy Adeel HassanA Massachusetts grand jury has indicted 12 current and two former officers of the Springfield Police Department who are accused of beating a group of four black men after a barroom dispute or participating in a cover-up of the assault.The announcement by the state attorney general’s office and the F.B.I. on Wednesday is the latest blow to the police force in Springfield, the state’s third-largest city.Last fall, two other police officers in the city were indicted on charges of using unreasonable force while arresting two Hispanic boys. They have pleaded not guilty. Additionally, the Justice Department is investigating whether the Springfield narcotics unit routinely used excessive force and violated residents’ civil rights.Wednesday’s indictments stem from an April 2015 confrontation that began inside Nathan Bills Bar & Restaurant, when one of the black men whistled at a bartender to get her attention. One off-duty officer thought the man was whistling at his girlfriend, an officer who was also off duty at the time, according to a federal civil rights lawsuit brought by the four black menTo clarify the misunderstanding, the lawsuit said, one of the men offered to buy the male officer a drink but was rebuffed.The four African-American patrons said they were later attacked by a group of white men down the street from the bar. They were “beaten and kicked and sustained significant injuries as a result of the assault” by six off-duty officers and one of the bar’s co-owners, the attorney general’s office said.Shawn Allyn, a lawyer for one of the six officers charged with assault, said Thursday that his client would be vindicated.“In my 20 years of representing criminal defendants in federal and state courts, I have never seen a case where an attorney general office has gotten the facts so wrong,” he said.“After the local district attorney and the Massachusetts United States attorney declined prosecutions in these cases, Attorney General Maura Healy interjected her office into a barroom brawl for which my client sustained serious bodily injuries and is the victim.”Nine officers as well as two co-owners of the bar are accused of taking part in a cover-up of the assault, the attorney general’s statement said. The co-owners were indicted Wednesday for misleading investigators.The attorney general said that one bar owner misled the F.B.I. during the investigation, and that many of the officers filed false police reports while the investigation was ongoing. They then lied in their testimony to the state grand jury, the attorney general said.In September, the City of Springfield agreed to pay $885,000 to settle the federal civil rights lawsuits brought by the four black men. The city of 155,000 people has about 480 police officers.The dozen officers indicted Wednesday will be suspended without pay, the acting police commissioner, Cheryl Clapprood, said. She said that she would weigh further disciplinary action once she learned more details from the grand jury proceedings.Six officers and one of the co-owners are each charged with four counts of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon; assault and battery causing serious bodily injury; three counts of assault and battery; and conspiracy. The rest are charged in connection with the alleged cover-up.The Springfield Patrolman’s Union did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Of the two former officers, one is retired and the other is now a state trooper. The Massachusetts State Police said that it would have a hearing on Friday to determine the status of the former Springfield police officer on its force, though he has been relieved of duty.“I am very disappointed and angry — these are very serious charges,” said Mayor Domenic J. Sarno. “Police officers are held to a higher standard and as I have stated before, must wear their badges, not only bravely, but with honor, integrity and professionalism.”Follow Adeel Hassan on Twitter: @adeelnyt.Advertisement