AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)It’s Major League Baseball’s opening day.Up and down the state, fans will head to ballparks to see their favorite players, sample the latest food innovations, drink craft brews and take in some fresh air (weather permitting).For David Rinetti, first pitch will be both the end of a sprint and the beginning of a marathon.“I’m not lying when I tell you I probably have about 50 things going on at once,” he said Wednesday morning.Mr. Rinetti is the vice president of stadium operations for the Oakland Athletics. He’s been in that job since 1994, but started with the team as a high schooler.“My job was to pass out a sporting newspaper that had Billy Martin on the front cover of it to our fans,” he said. “My first day of work was passing those out on opening night in 1981.”Suffice to say, things are different. The A’s started sharing the stadium with the Oakland Raiders in 1995, meaning a not insignificant part of Mr. Rinetti’s job became running the stadium’s changeovers from football to baseball.As the team inches toward a new waterfront stadium, I talked with Mr. Rinetti about what it takes to get the 50-year-old Oakland Coliseum ready for the season, and what he’ll miss most about the Brutalism exemplar.So you’ve been around for a while. Tell me about how your job has changed since 1994.It’s changed significantly based upon a lot of the security things. After 9/11, security procedures changed significantly. And then after the Boston Marathon bombing, it changed again, because the league required all teams to do metal detection.How long do the changeovers take, and how many people are involved? My guess is probably close to 100 people that are involved to switch things around. It really depends on how much time we have to get to the next event.The quickest turnaround that I recall was in 2013. We had a playoff game against the Tigers here, Game 2 of the American League division series on a Saturday and the game ended probably close to 10 p.m. that night and the Raiders had a game the next night at 8 p.m. I think they were done in somewhere around 12 hours.Anything you think you’d miss?I’ve been there my entire adult life there you know. So it’s been my life. So I’ll miss it because it’s really been my house for all these years. There’s people associated with the different teams that we share the facility with who won’t be there anymore.Do you have a favorite spot in the ballpark? For me personally, it would be right behind the backstop close to the dugout. And it is something that’s unique to only our ballpark. I don’t think there’s any ballpark left that has a walkway from the clubhouse to the dugout that you actually walk by fans. Now, most, if not all have a tunnel from the clubhouse down to the dugout.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• In her first major policy rollouts on the presidential campaign trail, Senator Kamala Harris proposed using federal money to invest more than $300 billion in education over a decade. It would be paid for by strengthening the estate tax. [The New York Times]• And as a first-term senator Ms. Harris amassed an impressive database of donors. Now she’s using it as a kind of stealth weapon in an election in which small-dollar contributions are acting as a kind of proxy for visibility. [The New York Times]• Orange County is ending its contract to detain immigrants for ICE in its jails, Sheriff Don Barnes said Wednesday. He said it was for financial reasons: The jails need more resources for mental health and substance abuse treatment for other inmates, and a report by the state auditor said the contract was actually costing the county money. [The Orange County Register]• “They’re like cats. They have so many lives.” How one couple worked California’s charter school system to make millions — and why new regulations aimed at boosting transparency might not fix the structural issues and lax oversight. [The Los Angeles Times]• Facebook said it would ban white nationalist and separatist content, a move that bows to longstanding demands from civil rights groups and others. [The New York Times]• What happens if you find a camera recording you in your Airbnb? It sounds creepy, but it’s getting more common. [The Atlantic]• Measles outbreaks are spreading around the country, raising public health alarms. Here’s what to know, including that California is one of four states that don’t allow religious exemptions to child vaccination requirements. [The New York Times]• Big investments by The Los Angeles Times’s new owner, Patrick Soon-Shiong, in tech and journalism are fueling a push to rebuild the paper. It has a long way to go, but Mr. Soon-Shiong looks at the effort as a 100-year play. [Nieman Lab]• The Dodgers have a chance to become the first team since the 1923 Yankees to lose two World Series in a row and return for a third try. Why? The team’s deep pool of talent. [The New York Times]• In 1970, he famously tattooed a bracelet around Janis Joplin’s wrist and a heart on her breast. That’s part of how San Francisco’s Lyle Tuttle became “the father of modern tattooing.” He died Monday at 87. [SFGate]• In case you missed it, Keanu Reeves got stuck at the Bakersfield airport, Meadows Field, had to take a bus to Los Angeles and read fun facts about the city from his phone to fellow passengers. [The Bakersfield Californian]It seems as if everybody’s talking about “Us,” Jordan Peele’s much-hyped follow-up to “Get Out.”“Us” has already been a huge box office success. The Times film critic Manohla Dargis described the horror film as “an expansive philosophical hall of mirrors,” and a “daring fun-until-it’s-not shocker.”In other words, it’s supposed to be really scary — so scary that people are now saying they’ll never go back to the Santa Cruz Boardwalk, where some of the movie is set, according to SFGate.Brian Firenzi, a writer and actor joked on Twitter that the setting was payback for a previous collaboration with Mr. Peele.The film also pays homage to its California setting in another way: By turning the Oakland-made weed anthem, “I Got 5 on It” into a creepy motif. But so far I haven’t seen anybody swearing off the song as a result.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement