AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — On a recent evening in the state’s capital, three lawmakers were discussing tax exemptions.State Senator Alessandra Biaggi had just wondered aloud at the challenges facing working mothers, leading a Senate colleague, Jessica Ramos, to mention a bill she had introduced to exempt breast pumps from sales taxes. That prompted Assemblywoman Yuh-Line Niou to interject: “Let’s talk, too, because I’m on the insurance committee.”The conversation, in the middle of the year’s budget negotiations, was hardly unusual. More unexpected was the location: Ms. Niou’s bed, where the three women were perched, in their shared apartment about two miles west of the State Capitol.State legislators have long shared lodging and ideas during their weekly pilgrimages to Albany, often taking adjoining rooms at local hotels or even buying neighboring apartments in a single co-op.Federal power brokers, including Senators Chuck Schumer of New York and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, have famously shared housing as well, leading to revelations about their nighttime attire (boxer shorts for Mr. Schumer) and stimulating conversations (on grandchildren and Metamucil, according to Mr. Durbin).But the three women in Albany are likely among the first to make a space like theirs: equal parts Ikea catalog, Instagram feed and campaign office.Copies of the Harvard Business Review and Self magazine lay side by side on Ms. Ramos’s bed. A book about “goals with soul” decorated Ms. Biaggi’s bedside table, near a photo of her great-grandmother and her grandfather, Mario Biaggi, a former congressman.Ms. Biaggi said she had recently invited the chancellor of the state university system to her legislative office for the first time, where they discussed the schools in Ms. Biaggi’s district, in the Bronx and Westchester County, as well as the senator’s taste in candles: “She walked in and said, ‘Oh, it smells good,’” Ms. Biaggi said with a laugh. (She keeps a matching, triple-sec-scented one by her bed.)In the apartment stairwell, a trio of campaign posters had been taped to the wall, one for each resident.Traditionally, lawmakers’ half-week stints in Albany have conjured images of noisy bars and cheap hotel rooms. Lawmakers are given $174 for each night they spend in the capital, and they get to pocket what they don’t spend, so they have often crowded into budget hotels to save money.The system has also seen its share of abuses: Several legislators have been convicted of bilking the system.But Ms. Biaggi, Ms. Ramos and Ms. Niou are part of a new class of legislators in Albany, one that is younger and more female than ever before, the result of a front of progressive energy that delivered the Capitol into all-Democratic hands last year. Ms. Biaggi, 32, and Ms. Ramos, 33, are in their first term. Ms. Niou, 35, is in her second.All took over from powerful men: Ms. Biaggi and Ms. Ramos defeated incumbents in the Democratic primary last year, toppling a group of breakaway senators who had long wielded disproportionate influence. Ms. Niou, also a Democrat, won the seat held by former Assembly speaker Sheldon Silver before he was indicted on federal corruption charges.The three met last summer, when Ms. Biaggi called Ms. Niou, who represents Manhattan, to ask for her endorsement. Ms. Biaggi and Ms. Ramos had already been campaigning together for months in an effort to oust their primary opponents; Ms. Niou organized a fund-raiser for the two soon after.“We didn’t have a pipeline,” Ms. Niou said.“This is the only way that anything’s going to shift,” Ms. Biaggi said of electing more women. “It’s so obvious to me.”Ms. Ramos showed the others her Instagram story, where she had shared a clip of an interview she taped with Univision at the Capitol that day. In the video, as Ms. Ramos, who represents Queens, called for more school funding, a young girl standing nearby watched, eyes wide.Their newness was apparent in everything from the recreational — where was the best nail salon in Albany? — to the professional: “We just go on all day. It’s worse than campaigning,” Ms. Biaggi said of the marathon meetings before the state’s April 1 budget deadline.She wasn’t complaining, though: “I, like, love chaos.”Ms. Niou, the nominal veteran of the house, shook her head at Ms. Biaggi’s excitement. “It’s not what she thinks it is,” she said of the grueling budget process. “But trust me, it’s going to be a lot better.”Ms. Niou was referring to not just the new Democratic control of Albany, but also a new optimism that she said stretched beyond partisan politics.“‘This is how it’s always been done’ — people would say that to me all the time,” Ms. Niou said. But not anymore, she added.“There’s a can-do attitude,” Ms. Ramos said.The seven-room apartment costs $1,200 a month, split three ways. The lease is month to month and will end in June, when the legislative session ends. Ms. Niou’s dog, Samson, is another sometimes tenant.Political differences are rare and slight. Ms. Biaggi said she had not decided whether she supported term limits. But she was leaning toward doing so, she added, earning a high-five from Ms. Ramos, a fervent supporter.Of the three, Ms. Ramos is the least chatty, the serene counterweight to Ms. Biaggi’s and Ms. Niou’s sometimes frenetic energy. She sleeps and wakes early; the other two prefer to stay up late and sleep in. (That has helped them divvy up time in their lone bathroom.)Ms. Ramos devotes time each day to calling her sons, who are 5 and 7 years old. “Thank God for FaceTime,” Ms. Ramos said of the iPhone app.Ms. Biaggi, who is getting married this summer, shook her head in admiration. She said she could not imagine balancing a pregnancy with being in office. “Now, if the Legislature had child care …”For now, the women said, they were having trouble even finding time for themselves. On that particular night, three of the apartment’s rooms were completely bare, save a trapeze of ceramic pots hanging from the ceiling.Ms. Niou and Ms. Biaggi had spent the previous night sitting on the floor of their empty study, discussing predatory loans. Plastic-wrapped Ikea pans sat on the stove, untouched. The refrigerator held almond milk, vegetable chips, grapefruit sparkling water and not much else.“What’s missing is the kombucha in my car,” Ms. Biaggi said.One of the women pitched the idea of a housewarming party, before furniture arrived to clutter the living room. The invitation list would include their fellow new young senators, with whom Ms. Biaggi and Ms. Ramos have an active group text message.“Before we have a budget?” Ms. Ramos said with a laugh.Definitely, the others said — they would need a break after so many long days.Ms. Niou interjected. “Well, as long as you guys are helping me clean after.”Follow Vivian Wang on Twitter: @vwang3Advertisement