AdvertisementSupported byNo woman is responsible for harassment or any other violent act against her. But experienced travelers and government agencies show how to travel as safely as possible.By Tariro Mzezewa and Lela MooreOn Tuesday, Google unveiled a Doodle in honor of Chen Mao Ping, the renowned Chinese-born author known as Sanmao, on what would have been her 76th birthday. She traveled the globe and wrote of her adventures, inspiring generations of women to see the world beyond their own homes.Sanmao died in 1991 in Taiwan, but it’s not hard to imagine that while traveling she had encountered some risk, as many women who travel today do.After the publication of a New York Times article about the dangers women face while traveling alone — a thread in a broader fabric of harassment and violence — readers had lots of suggestions about how to keep women safe. Jessica Nabongo, who appeared in the article, says she stays in hotels with 24-hour security or in Airbnbs that have achieved Superhost status. She tries to always take Ubers so that her location is tracked, especially at night.Paramount among the suggestions were calls for men to be allies.Many readers noted that men can do much to help women — and others — who travel alone by simply not ignoring the bad behavior of others. If something seems amiss, check on another traveler, and if need be, intervene safely or alert the authorities.Below are other suggestions.“Bring a basic rubber doorstop and use that to wedge under the inside of your hotel/lodging door while you’re in your room. It’s almost impossible to push open a door while that’s in place.”— Allison Lane, 38, San Francisco. Has traveled to Sierra Leone, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, Egypt, India, Nepal, Jamaica, and Russia.Many women said they practiced self-defense tactics like martial arts. But they also said that above all: Heed your gut; trust your instincts. Carry pepper spray, a pocketknife, a laptop or anything that can be used as a weapon or to summon help. There’s nothing to lose by going on group tours or guided excursions. Others also stressed the same tactics they used at home: not walking alone in the dark, never taking a drink you haven’t seen poured and being aware of the “friendly” stranger.Some women suggested carrying two phones in case one is stolen. Others said to divide up your belongings and your cash in case you’re robbed, so that you do not lose everything.Free applications like Chirpey, RedZone, MayDay, Tripwhistle and Noonlight let women flag incidents and areas of danger, and show how to contact local law enforcement.“Be prepared to be bombarded as you step off the bus, train, or out of the airport. These can be some of the most intense moments of solo travel. It’s good to already know what you want and where you are going next. If you don’t, then just walk away a short distance, observe, and take a little time to get your bearings before making a decision. “Overnight buses are the worst when you’re traveling alone as a woman! More than once I’ve woken up with the hand of the man next to me wandering over between my legs. Now I put a bag in between me and the next person, and the first time he tests the waters, even if I’m not sure he has bad intentions, I make a point to overreact a little.”— Kelsi Lyon, 37, Portland, Ore. Has traveled to India, Indonesia, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Peru, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Philippines, Spain, France and Italy.Many readers stressed that dressing according to the local customs, including wearing modest clothing, simply made sense and was not a way to blame women for the acts of others. The United States State Department notes: “When it comes to health and security, women travelers are more likely to be affected by religious and cultural beliefs of the foreign countries they visit. The truth is that women face greater obstacles, especially when traveling alone.”“In moments between the wonder, awe and privilege of traveling through the world, I have been followed and harassed by men who assume I’m a sex worker, not a solo black female traveler simply trying to see a bit of the world. “When I’m traveling solo through Southeast Asia, I try to increase my visibility and underscore my humanity by making friends with locals. I chat with the older male and female hawkers, guards and food sellers I pass, buy a thing or two and let them know how long I’ll be around. In many cultures, elders are respected, and when you connect with them, they take you under their wing. Learning a few words of conversation, greeting, thanks and emergency go a long way in this regard.”— Martha Mukaiwa, 33, Windhoek, Namibia. Has traveled to Thailand, Malaysia, Ghana, Indonesia, Germany, France and Italy.“I will often hire a local guide to accompany me:you are far less likely to be trifled with when you are with one. They speak the language and pave the way. “I tip at hotels as soon as I get there in countries with a high poverty rate. Concierge, desk, servers, maids and luggage, I give to them all. That way if I need a rescue or anything else, I am covered. This has often paid off for me. “I once needed assistance to get back to my hotel during a riot in Ecuador. I could not take a taxi — it was the taxi drivers who were rioting. I couldn’t get back to the hotel and it was the only time I went out without a guide. I had tipped everyone at my hotel so when I called for assistance, I was covered.”— Caroline Vroom, 63, Sarasota, Fla. I have traveled to South America, Europe, Asia, Egypt — 75 countries. Not always alone. But alone quite a lot. I sometimes prefer it. Many governments issue travel advisories for other countries for their citizens. The State Department, for example, publishes a list of safety levels by country. Its website, Travel.State.Gov, has information on every country and contact information for the closest American Embassy or Consulate.The State Department also has advice specifically for female travelers, and other groups.Consider enrolling in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program, a.k.a. STEP, or its equivalent in your country.Unicef has data on violence indicators that may be telling for travelers, including domestic violence, female genital mutilation and female homicide. The World Bank has a gender data portal that provides statistics that can signal to women whether it’s a safe location over all.“Try to stay in places where other travelers are staying, i.e. try not to stay in a place where you are the only guest. Try to be sure you can lock your door when you go to sleep. As useless as this may seem, I have even locked the zippers of my tent together and slept with the key in my hand.“Use your voice: scream and yell when you feel threatened. I have even run from an isolated street where I was being surrounded and threatened by a group of men straight into the arms of a random man and woman walking together on a more populated street, screaming how happy I was to see them again.”— Elena Steigman, 41, Valencia, Spain. Has traveled to Israel, Palestine, Egypt, Jordan, Greece, an army base in Lebanon at the Lebanon-Israel border, Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Peru, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Philippines, Austria, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Germany, Croatia, Spain, the Netherlands, Scotland, Denmark, Italy, France, Poland and Portugal.“Plan ahead as much as possible. As much as spontaneity can make a trip, there are certain things that are better not left to chance, like airport transfers and other transportation. Most of all, saving some money isn’t worth putting your safety at risk. I feel that lack of reliable and safe transportation in many countries poses the greatest risk to traveler safety.”— Juliet DeMasi, 25, Providence, R.I. Has traveled to Canada, Washington, D.C., New York, Iceland, London, France. Italy, Greece, Thailand and Australia.“Don’t be afraid of publicly shaming someone who is harassing you. If you suddenly find yourself in a dangerous neighborhood or situation, be erratic, drool, laugh out loud and mutter to yourself. These are all things I’ve done while traveling by myself all around the world for the past 35 years. “When on a train in Italy, the conductor was trying relentlessly to get me into bed. After “trying to be nice” for a while and fending him off physically, I screamed as loudly as I could in Italian, and he ran to another part of the train. Unsettling because I knew he was somewhere on the train. I didn’t go to sleep.”— Amanda Franzoni, 49, Portland, Ore. I’ve been traveling by myself all around the world for the past 35 years. Japan, China, Italy, England, France, Spain, the Netherlands, Panama, Canada, Mexico and the United States, including Puerto Rico.“Travel safety sites will advise women on what ‘appropriate female travel behaviors’ look like: don’t go out at night, don’t drink alcohol, don’t explore isolated areas or engage in sexual encounters. Personally, I’d like to see a list of ‘appropriate male travel behaviors’ also added to these websites. Women are taught from the beginning that the world is a scary place for us. This construct desperately needs to change if equality is ever to be possible.“Here are some of my tips: Pay for your safety even if it means spending a bit more. Take an Uber, stay in centralized accommodations and buy a local SIM card so your mobile works internationally. “If there are other solo female travelers around, introduce yourself to them, as you will naturally look out for one another along the way and make a new friend. “Most importantly, don’t succumb to the fear. In my experience, the world contains far more kindness and good than bad. Book the flight and strap on that backpack — traveling solo is the best decision a woman will ever make for herself.”— Heather-Rose Cahill, 36, London. I have traveled as a solo female to 16 countries spanning three continents: Vietnam, Cuba, Montenegro, Malta, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Italy, Spain, Croatia, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Mexico, Cambodia, the Netherlands and Scotland.As the writer, filmmaker and activist Susan Sontag is quoted as saying, “I haven’t been everywhere, but it’s on my list.”Correction: An earlier version of this article misquoted a woman who described her experiences being followed or harassed while traveling alone. She said she has been followed and harassed by men who assume she is "a sex worker," not "a prostitute."Tariro Mzezewa is a travel reporter at The New York Times.   @tariro Lela Moore is an audience writer for the Reader Center. She covers reader reaction to breaking news and popular articles on topics ranging from politics to business to sports. She also moderates the New York Times Reader Center Group on Facebook.  @runlelarun • Facebook Advertisement