AdvertisementSupported byTRAVELAn article in Travel this weekend describes several new hotels and other high-end developments in Jaffa, the ancient port adjacent to Tel Aviv. In focusing exclusively on those new additions, the article fails to touch on important aspects of Jaffa’s makeup and its history — in particular, the history and continuing presence of its Arab population and the expulsion of many residents in 1948. Because of this lapse, the article also did not acknowledge the continuing controversy about new development and its effect on Jaffa. After readers pointed out the problem, editors added some of that background information to the online version, which is available at nytimes.com/travel.ARTS & LEISUREAn article on Page 14 about the actress and comedian Amy Schumer refers imprecisely to the video Ms. Schumer made about Beyoncé’s “Lemonade.” It was a tribute, not a spoof.METROPOLITANAn article on March 3 about the photographer James Van Der Zee’s pictures of Harlem omitted a credit for the photographs. The credit should have read: James Van Der Zee and Donna Mussenden Van Der Zee, courtesy of Howard Greenberg Gallery in New York.STYLESA review on March 3 from Paris Fashion Week misstated the given name of a designer. He is Mariano Fortuny, not Mario.REAL ESTATEAn article last Sunday about living in Long Valley, N.J., misstated the sale price of a home sold by the Klaassen family. The home sold for $582,000, or 16 percent less than the owners paid in late 2005, not $575,000, or 17 percent less.TRAVELAn article on March 3 about places in Venice to find cicchetti, the Venetian version of tapas, misidentified a white wine served at Cantine del Vino già Schiavi and its place of origin. The wine is Orto di Venezia, not Orto di Venezia St. Venissa, and its grapes are grown on the island of Sant’Erasmo, not Mazzorbo. The article also misspelled the given name of an owner of the restaurant All’Arco. He is Matteo Pinto, not Mateo. And the article misstated the name of a gondola station near the Osteria Bancogiro. It is the Traghetto Santa Sofia, not San Sofia.BOOK REVIEWBecause of an editing error, a review last Sunday about “An American Summer: Love and Death in Chicago,” by Alex Kotlowitz, misstated Chicago’s homicide rate in 2018. It was roughly two-thirds of what it was in 1990; it was not one-third of the 2013 rate.•A review last Sunday about the novel “Daisy Jones & The Six” misstated the author’s name. She is Taylor Jenkins Reid, not Taylor Reid Jenkins.•A review on March 3 about the novel “The White Book,” by the South Korean writer Han Kang, misstated the author’s surname. It is Han, not Kang.THE MAGAZINEAn article on Feb. 10 about the French writer Éric Zemmour described incorrectly Breton, Basque and Occitan. They are languages, not dialects.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement