AdvertisementSupported byThe Story of a ThingIn her Manhattan apartment, the actress keeps a sculpture made by an artist while on death row.As told to Emily SpivackIn this series, Emily Spivack, the author of “Worn Stories,” interviews creative people about their most prized possessions. Here, the actress Chloë Sevigny describes her longtime interest in Damien Echols, one of the West Memphis Three — the teenagers who were wrongfully convicted and imprisoned for murdering three boys in West Memphis, Ark., in 1993 — and an artwork he made while on death row that she now keeps on a bookshelf in her Manhattan apartment. Sevigny stars in the new Hulu show “The Act,” which premieres on March 20, 2019.I had been following the West Memphis Three case since I got out of high school in 1993. It exposed me to the injustices of the criminal justice system, and I was particularly smitten with Damien Echols’s personality, his intensity and his intellect. I came from a generation that grew up on the West Memphis Three documentaries and identified with those kids. When it’s somebody like the kids you know and hang out with, it hits you on a personal level. I was getting off the N or R train at Eighth Street, walking up the steps, and I see this guy walking down Broadway with these dark sunglasses and a long black leather trench coat. I yell, “Damien!” I stop and he stops. He looks at me, and I just start crying. It was Damien.[Coming later this spring: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting. Sign up here.]It was 2011 and Damien had just gotten out of prison after serving over 18 years. He and the two other boys, the West Memphis Three, were on death row for many years after they were wrongfully accused. He must have only been out for a few weeks when I saw him.I was like, “I don’t know what to say. I’m so happy you’re out.” Damien hugged me and said, “Hi, I’m Damien.” I said, “Hi, I’m Chloë.” We talked for about 15 minutes. He told me he liked to walk around Manhattan. I mean, can you imagine the sensory overload of Manhattan after being in prison, in solitary? He gave me his business card that had an ankh on one side and it said Damien and his phone number on the other. I didn’t ask for a picture with him or anything. I just wanted to be there, show him love, somehow communicate what a powerful force he was for me and for the universe in general. Then I walked away totally shook.I started texting him, and then Instagram happened and I found him there. We sparked up a friendship. I was buying his books and going to his readings. He started showing his art, and I saw this bird on Instagram, which he was showing at a gallery in Los Angeles. He’d made it out of paper, soap, glue, acrylic and paper clips while he was on death row. I wondered how he got this piece out of prison because I knew from the books he had written that they would destroy his papers and art. I called the gallery and asked how I could purchase it. I wanted to support him — and also it’s such a profound piece.This interview has been edited and condensed.Emily Spivack is an artist, writer, and editor whose column for T Magazine, The Story of a Thing, features interviews with cultural figures about objects in their homes.  Advertisement