AdvertisementSupported byBy Sandra E. GarciaA suspect in the deadly shooting of an off-duty police officer in Chicago over the weekend was targeting the “first Hispanic man he saw” after a dispute with a group of Latino men, the city’s police superintendent said.The officer, John Rivera, 23, was shot in a parked car early Saturday along with a friend, who was hospitalized and is now in stable condition, according to Melissa Staples, the Chicago Police Department’s chief of detectives.Surveillance camera video showed that one of the two men who have been charged in the attack, Menelik Jackson, 24, encountered the Latino men on a party bus in front of a McDonald’s in the River North neighborhood, Chief Staples said at a news conference on Monday. Mr. Jackson, who is black, was punched in the face by one of the men and ran away, the chief said.Shortly after, Mr. Jackson returned but the party bus had left the area, Chief Staples said. Mr. Jackson then got in his white Ford pickup truck and searched the area for the bus but did not find it, she said.Chief Staples said that an hour after the confrontation in front of the McDonald’s, Mr. Jackson approached a car with two friends, Jovan Battle, 32, and another man the police are still searching for. She said Mr. Jackson then shot at the car with a .40-caliber handgun, killing Officer Rivera and wounding his friend.“It appears that he was just looking for a Hispanic person,” Eddie Johnson, the Chicago police superintendent, said at the news conference. “He was searching around for the party bus, the party bus had left the area, so I guess he settled for the first Hispanic he saw,” Mr. Johnson said, adding that Mr. Jackson had confessed.Mr. Jackson and Mr. Battle have each been charged with one count of first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder. They are being held without bail.Mr. Johnson also said that the authorities “have been pursuing possible hate crime charges since the beginning.”Chris Anderson, a public defender who is representing Mr. Battle, said that his client did not “share the intent of the shooter based on what the state proffered.” He added that Mr. Battle “suffers from bipolar disorder and depression, receives S.S.I. and disability, was denied phone calls, and has a severe, untreated, old and deep cut to his finger that needs medical attention.”Mr. Battle has been ordered to the jail hospital for treatment, Mr. Anderson said.A lawyer for Mr. Jackson did not immediately respond to calls and emails.Officer Rivera’s second anniversary with the Chicago police had been approaching in May, the department said.“He was the kind of officer that we want in Chicago,” Mr. Johnson said, adding that Officer Rivera was a “hard worker, he loved going out on patrol and solving problems.”Advertisement