AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNAndrew J. Ries gets down with this Saturday puzzle.By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE  — Andrew J. Ries’s layout today is really cool, when you stop to look at it. There’s an extra column, which allows for a 16-letter span in the center row; there’s also an interesting arrangement of long down entries and 71 clues, which nears the usual limit for a themeless, so even without arrays of full stacks the grid looks daunting. I thought the cultural references were attainable though, and the solve was jaunty and clean.One of my younger self’s favorite authors was one of those longish down entries, so that was my recherche du temps perdu du jour; I didn’t get to the band that Mr. Ries includes and extols in his notes until I started this post, and found it pleasant listening while I worked. Perhaps you had, or are about to have, the same experience.Mr. Ries laments some of his cornering here but I have no beef, just trouble with a few little bits and pieces like CSA (I prefer to associate this acronym with farms), GPS, LUM, and ENOS. I got tripped up with “Odie” for OTTO, “Todos” for GOALS and “Sure” for SOME. 16A: Epic misdirect, and I had just been thinking about this particular “Boxer” a week or two ago, forgetting what had happened there. We aren’t looking for a prize fighter, we’re looking for a senator, BARBARA Boxer of California, whose seat was filled by Kamala Harris.17A: This sounds exactly like what it is, but it’s a debut so I figure I’d mention DATA DUMP. These can be intentional transfers of information, like what journalists often dive into for computer assisted reporting projects, but they can also be massive breaches, which is more likely to be the context in which you’ve heard the term. 33A: Not a church goer, solved on the crosses with a couple of assumptions, went to Google to see what an AMEN CORNER actually was and found this Welsh rock band by that name. They are of the right era to belong to the PSYCHEDELIC MUSIC genre but seem to be pegged more as glam rock. 3D: If you know your black tea varieties, the answer here is a gimme, EARL GREY TEA. Bergamot is limelike and fragrant and supposedly its essential oil has all kinds of health-boosting properties. It’s often used in aromatherapy as well.17D: “White Noise” was the first book I read by this novelist, for a college class, and I became a major devotee of DON DELILLO in the late 90s — if you’ve never read this book, do it. The more I think about it the more lucidly perfect it is for the moment we're living in right now, so much so that I’m going to have to read it again. There is definitely an academic aspect to this book that made it very suitable for college life, but I think it’ll hold up. I always feel vaguely heretical rereading anything when there are so many amazing books unknown to me out there but the tide of content rises so fast, there’s no keeping up so we might as well go with a sure bet once in a while.25D: This biblical entry could be a companion to AMEN CORNER, once you figure it out, and it was one that I knew despite my enormous religious mental block. The etymology of RAISING CAIN indicates that “raising” is conjuring, and “Cain” is the first murderer in the Old Testament, so you’re really asking for WOE.I’ve become a massive fan of TANGERINE DREAM in the last couple of years. Shout out to the terrific ’80s All Over podcast, whose review of Thief introduced me to the band, and particularly their movie soundtracks. I’ve seen about a dozen of the movies that they scored since writing this puzzle in July 2017. I’d say Thief is their best overall soundtrack, while Sorcerer is the best movie that they scored. Because most of their music is instrumental, I find it makes for an excellent accompaniment when filling a grid, as lyrics tend to distract me. Many a puzzle over the last few years has been written while listening to TD.That said, I was more interested in the convenient letters of TANGERINE DREAM when I seeded the puzzle. I’d tried and failed at my first few attempts at executing this 14-10-10-14 quad-stagger layout, but this one turned out well. I was just trying for DELI at that central across; when I realized it could be expanded to PSYCHEDELIC MUSIC (which then opened up the slots for AMEN CORNER and PRINTER INK), I knew I had something. If I were constructing this today, I’d work on cleaning up the corners — there are a few too many abbreviations and initialisms for my current taste. But that center section is one of my favorites, and even more so because Tangerine Dream has become so personally beloved since writing the puzzle.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?Advertisement