AdvertisementSupported byStar Trek: DiscoveryBy Sopan DebThe board is now Burnham’s.Or so it seems. So much of this season of “Star Trek: Discovery” is about control. Of course, there is the literal villain — Control — the malevolent artificial intelligence which aims to wipe out all sentient life in the universe. A charming fellow, that one.And then there is the concept of control: So many characters struggle to take command of their own destinies, even though with the time travel element, it is a futile battle. Some characters — Saru, for example — have done better with this than others.But no character has had her life upended due to events beyond her control like Burnham. Whether it is investigating what happened with Spock, the re-emergence of her mother or the loss of her friend Airiam, Burham is running from one emotional shock to the next. Her life has been full of suffering from a young age. The Vulcans shun her. Her adoptive father doesn’t think highly of her human background. Her biological parents were murdered — and she only finds out decades later the real reason.In “Perpetual Infinity,” Burnham is teased with the slightest bit of happiness: Her mother is within arm’s reach and finally they can be together. Of course, there is a containment field between the two of them, and by the end of the episode, Burnham has lost her once again — this time, likely for good. She’s less a Vulcan than a Buddhist: Life is suffering.At the very start of the episode, the Discovery crew awakens Burnham from the dead, because in the “Discovery” universe, death is merely a construct. No one really dies. There is only struggle and even that is pointless.Control takes over Leland’s body, essentially, to fool his Starfleet colleagues into doing the artificial intelligence’s bidding. I am not entirely sure what Control is, but there are some theories that this is an early form of the Borg.I’m not sure I buy that: Control is focused on destruction, whereas the Borg on perfection. (And selfishly, I am really hoping this isn’t the Borg. The most terrifying villains in Trek history do not need an origin story. Their mystery adds to the intrigue.) A side note: How did Control restrain Leland to the chair?As far as last week’s big revelation, Burnham’s mother, Gabrielle, played admirably by Sonja Sohn, is trapped in Burnham’s time. She appears to not be able to stay in different time periods for long, because an anchor of some sort keeps pulling her to a spot where organic life has been wiped out: apparently 950 years into the future from when Klingons appeared to kill her and her husband.She doesn’t want to speak to her daughter. She only wants to speak to Pike, to whom she says, “I could say more about your future, but you won’t like it,” an Easter egg for Trekkies well aware of Pike ending up in a wheelchair. Gabrielle wants Discovery to destroy the sphere’s data archive (a potentially invaluable resource), without which Control can’t evolve. When mother and daughter finally see each other, Gabrielle is cold. She says she’s let Burnham go: “There’s only the bigger picture now. Nothing else.”Destroying the sphere doesn’t work, so the Discovery crew hatches a plan, with some incoherent technobabble: They’re going to launch the time traveling suit and the sphere so far into the future that, somehow, this will save sentient life in the universe. And somehow, they’ll be able to get Gabrielle to stay in the current time too.Possessed Leland disrupts these plans — this isn’t what Control wants. He stabs Tyler, who of course lives, and warns the Discovery crew that Leland is coming to the surface to cause a ruckus. Here, of course, some Starfleet crew members appear to die. The reason they die is because the audience doesn’t know their names.The gambit from Leland doesn’t quite work, but it requires Gabrielle to sacrifice herself in order to send the suit and the sphere into the future. Problem solved! But unfortunately, Burnham is in deep pain once again.“Perpetual Infinity,” written by Alan McElroy and Brandon Schultz, was tightly focused but heavy on exposition. It also was stuffed with technobabble to the point that its developments were a bit difficult to follow.As she often does, Sonequa Martin-Green made the episode a compelling watch. She plays Burnham’s vulnerability very well. I would have liked to see Sohn stick around for a bit more of the story line, but “Discovery” writers like to fool the audience. She might be back before we know it.Once again, I am left wondering what Tyler’s role is here. He seems to have a moral center, but his abilities seem minimal for someone in Section 31. And we seem to have forgotten why he made it to Section 31 to begin with: L’Rell staged his death to allow him to escape Klingons who doubted his loyalties.I try not to watch teaser trailers for next week because I like the surprise, so I am at a loss of where the story goes next. Is the universe safe from Control? Are we good? Can we give Burnham something to smile about? Please?Advertisement