AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times• New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday, two days after a gunman opened fire at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, killing at least 50 people. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Sunday that the suspect, an Australian, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would discuss gun regulation at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said.• Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email.• The family of the suspect, identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, has apologized for the attack. In an interview published online on Sunday by Australia’s 9News, his grandmother said the family was “shattered” and denounced his actions as “unrepairable.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Sunday that the suspect charged in the Christchurch shootings, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand.A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant.Ms. Ardern said he would face more charges, but she did not say whether terrorism charges were being considered. She said she was seeking advice on whether Mr. Tarrant might be extradited to Australia, but that his trial would take place in New Zealand.“He will certainly face the justice system of New Zealand for the terror attack he has committed here,” she said.There was no other shooter, Ms. Ardern said. She said one person had been taken into custody as a result of evidence collected during the investigation but that there was no evidence he was linked to the attack.Ms. Ardern said that her government would discuss the New Zealand’s gun laws at a meeting on Monday.“There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said at an afternoon news conference.She also said she would look into reports that there had been a surge in gun sales in New Zealand since the attack on Friday.The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where many people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons.Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months.Within hours of the Friday killings, the prime minister promised changes to gun laws and said regulations of semiautomatic weapons were “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked.Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.”“Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster.Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that one of the assailant’s goals was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.”There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million.Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon.In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used.“It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group.“This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.”In an exclusive interview with Australia’s 9News, the family of the suspect condemned the attack and offered an apology to the families of the victims.“We’re so sorry for the families over there, for the dead and the injured,” Terry Fitzgerald, the suspect’s uncle, said. “We can’t think nothing else. We just want to go home and hide.”The suspect’s grandmother Marie Fitzgerald, 81, said: “We are all gobsmacked. We don’t know what to think.”“The media is saying he’s planned it for a long time,” she added. “So he’s obviously not of sound mind, I don’t think.”According to the 9News’s report, Brenton Harrison Tarrant had traveled to Europe after his father died of cancer 2010. The trips came at a time when Islamic extremism was on the rise, it said.“It was only since he traveled overseas, I think, that that boy has changed,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.They first learned that Mr. Tarrant was the suspect in the massacre while watching television, the report said. At first, the uncle said, they couldn’t believe it. But then they saw his photo.“It’s unrepairable,” Ms. Fitzgerald said.Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the man charged in the Christchurch shootings, was a member of the Bruce Rifle Club in New Zealand, the club confirmed on Sunday.The club is about a 35-minute drive from Dunedin, New Zealand, where Mr. Tarrant lived. In a statement, the club said it had about 100 members, all of whom are licensed to own and use firearms.Mr. Tarrant joined the Bruce Rifle Club last February, Scott Williams, the club’s vice president, said in an interview. He said Mr. Tarrant appeared to already have shooting skills and typically went to the range by himself.The club told the police on Friday that Mr. Tarrant had been a member, and the police visited the club on Sunday, Mr. Williams said. He said he could not say how often Mr. Tarrant went to the club because his attendance records had been turned over to the police.Mr. Williams said he had seen Mr. Tarrant at the club with a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but didn’t know where Mr. Tarrant got them. He said he and other members had seen no indication that Mr. Tarrant had violent intent.“He was just normal,” Mr. Williams said. “He was polite. He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.”The club has been closed until further notice, Mr. Williams said.In a live video on Facebook on Saturday, a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl said he had reported the Bruce Rifle Club to the police years ago after a visit because he had “serious concerns about the mental stability of some of those members.”He also posted an image of a comment dated Nov. 20, 2017, about the club, in which he said that at least half the members would be going home to “their mums basement and onto the internet for a night of heroic talk in gun forums.”Mr. Williams declined to comment on Mr. Breidahl’s Facebook video.The airport in Dunedin, the city where the suspect in the Christchurch shootings had lived, was closed Sunday evening after a “report of a suspicious package on the airfield,” the authorities said.“Police are at the scene and specialist teams have been deployed to determine the nature of the package,” the New Zealand police said in a statement.Earlier Sunday evening, an armed police officer stood watch outside the address in Dunedin that was listed in court documents as the home of Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the suspect. About a five-minute drive from the center of Dunedin, the second-largest city on the South Island of New Zealand, the pale blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide rectangular windows with open curtains, a satellite dish sitting at the top of a cement stairway and an overgrown yard. The mailbox bore a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!”Several people who lived nearby said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant. They described the neighborhood in the Andersons Bay suburb of Dunedin as a mix of rented and owned homes.Carl Tainui, who lives nearby, was out walking Sunday evening and said he was “shocked” that such “total hatred” had allegedly originated so close to his home.Over the weekend, the police had blocked off the road in the Dunedin neighborhood while a bomb squad searched the area. The street was shut down from Friday evening until midday Saturday. By Sunday evening, journalists swarmed the area, knocking on doors and filming outside Mr. Tarrant’s house.Amy Hanson, 28, moved into a house across the street from Mr. Tarrant’s last year.She said that she had seen Mr. Tarrant’s address listed last week on a rental site for $280 a week and that her sister’s boyfriend had planned to view the property last Tuesday. She said the listing had since been removed.“He must have planned to move out, knew he was going to go to jail or die,” she said. “The weirdest thing is, he is my age. He is so young. I just don’t get it.”Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said on Sunday.A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack.A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet.Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three.“Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said.Ms. Ardern said the list of people killed was still provisional and that the families of victims would receive financial assistance. She said families would receive the bodies of victims starting Sunday evening, with all bodies expected to be returned by Wednesday.[Here’s how to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.]A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman.3 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He openedfire at around1:40 p.m.Re-entered mosque and began firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot new gun fromparked carExitedmosqueDroveaway1 min.later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.SouthHagleyParkAl NoorMosqueDeans Ave.2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Re-enteredmosque andbegan firingResumed firingoutside the mosqueShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later234563 The gunman’s video shows him driving away six minutes after the first shot.1 The gunman parked inthe alley next to the mosque,according to the live video.Al NoorMosqueDeans Ave.South Hagley Park2 He opened fire ataround 1:40 p.m.Resumed firingoutside the mosqueRe-entered mosqueand began firingShot abystanderFirst shot firedParkedExited mosqueGot a new gunfrom the parked carLeft mosqueDroveaway1 minute later23456By Jin Wu and Allison McCann | Note: Times are local time.The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, had died in the attack on Friday.The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years.“He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.”Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said.Later on Sunday, the company PricewaterhouseCoopers said that one of its employees, Areeb Ahmed, had also been killed.In a Facebook post, the company said it had learned of Mr. Ahmed’s death from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan.“Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family who lived our values every day,” it said. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.”The prime minister also said that Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, had shared her condolences over the shootings, parts of which were live-streamed on the social media platform.On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content.The police on Sunday said the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims had been killed. Another 50 people were injured.“As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner.Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified.The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial.“We are aware of the cultural and religious needs so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said.Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody.“That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.”“I can tell you that within six minutes of police being called, on 111, within six minutes armed police staff were on the scene,” Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said on Sunday. “Within 10 minutes, our armed offenders squad were on the scene, and within 36 minutes, we had that mobile offender in our custody.”Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first.The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mr. Bush said the officers prevented further deaths.“Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.”Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that nine minutes before the attack, her office was among more than 30 lawmakers and news organizations that received a manifesto purported to be from the gunman. In accordance with protocol, her office forwarded it to parliamentary security within two minutes of receiving it, she said.Had the manifesto provided details that could have been acted on immediately, Ms. Ardern said, her office would have acted on them. She said she had read parts of the manifesto, which she called “deeply disturbing.”Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong.Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque.Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions.Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away.Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said.Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country.Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Emily Steel from Dunedin, New Zealand; and Sarah Mervosh from New York.Advertisement