AdvertisementSupported byNursultan Nazarbayev is leaving the presidency but will retain considerable power.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.At a time when would-be autocrats around the world are doing what they can to stay on the throne, the reigning master of their breed, Kazakhstan’s Nursultan Nazarbayev, unexpectedly announced his retirement as president after a mere 30 years. What gives?Most likely not much. Mr. Nazarbayev may no longer be “president,” but among the titles conferred by a subservient Parliament on the only leader independent Kazakhstan has known is “father of the nation,” a status that, among other things, grants him and his family (all fabulously wealthy) lifelong immunity from criminal and civil prosecution.He also remains head of the ruling Nur Otan party and the powerful Security Council. And among the first acts of the new acting president, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, was to have Mr. Nazarbayev’s 55-year-old daughter, Dariga Nazarbayeva, named speaker of the Parliament and therefore next in line for the presidency, and to have the nation’s capital, Astana, renamed “Nursultan” after Mr. Nazarbayev. The father of the nation, Mr. Tokayev assured the nation, “will have special, one might say priority, importance in developing and making strategic decisions.” Sculptors are no doubt at work on some giant new statues.By ceding the presidency, Mr. Nazarbayev also deftly stepped out of the firing line at a time of irksome civil unrest. Last month, following persistent protests triggered by the deaths of five children in a house fire on Feb. 4, Mr. Nazarbayev dismissed the government, accusing it of failing to raise living standards and diversify the oil-dominated economy.The resignation was most likely another masterstroke by the last survivor of the band of wily Communist bosses who seized power in their respective republics when the Soviet Union fell apart and repurposed themselves as national champions and, in Central Asia at least, as all-powerful despots. Mr. Nazarbayev was the only name in independent Kazakhstan’s first election, and after that he was routinely re-elected by unreal margins in elections dismissed as fixed by Western observers. He had the Constitution rewritten so that he (but only he) could exceed the two-term limit.His human rights record has been dismal, and his pillaging of the national till epic. Among the victims of his wrath was his son-in-law, Ms. Nazarbayeva’s husband Rakhat Aliyev, who amassed a fortune and considerable power before the president turned on him and accused him of everything from murder to treason. Mr. Aliyev fled but eventually died in an Austrian prison, officially a suicide.Yet with oil reserves estimated at 30 billion barrels, Mr. Nazarbayev had the wherewithal to blunt criticism at home and abroad. A shrewd and competent ruler, he improved the lives of native Kazakhs, retained a sizable population of Russians, and managed to maintain cordial relations with Russia, China and Western companies that helped develop the oil and gas resources. The United States State Department expressed confidence that the “strong” American relationship with Kazakhstan will continue after the resignation of Mr. Nazarbayev, who met with President Trump at the White House in January 2018.Mr. Nazarbayev seems to have engineered a transition that other autocrats, like Russia’s Vladimir Putin, are likely to closely follow as an alternative to dying in office, in exile or in prison. Whether Mr. Nazarbayev’s daughter can hang on to power once he dies is not certain — a nephew, Samat Abish, has risen fast through the ranks of state security, and some other senior officials may also be looking to make their moves.But so long as Mr. Nazarbayev lives and remains of sound mind, he told the nation in his resignation announcement, “Until my dying day, I will stay with you.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement