
          PAID FOR AND POSTED BY 
          CBS

“There’s a reason we say, ‘Oh, I’m in the Twilight Zone,’” said Brandon Laventure, a student at the Kanbar Institute of Film & Television at N.Y.U.’s Tisch School of the Arts. “That phrase has stuck until today because the ideas in these episodes, they’re life. They come up again and again. It’s still in our imagination because every day we’re reminded of something that resonates. If that weren’t the case, that phrase wouldn’t be so sticky.”“The Twilight Zone,” created and narrated by visionary screenwriter and producer Rod Serling, is widely recognized as one of television’s most iconic and influential series. Debuting to critical praise in 1959, this anthology series quickly established a lasting grip on the American psyche with its trademark amalgam of science fiction, fantasy, horror, suspense and the macabre — always employed by Serling to stunning effect in the service of a moral truth.On the eve of a new chapter of this storied franchise — the reimagining of “The Twilight Zone,” now streaming exclusively on CBS All Access, and helmed by contemporary auteur and Academy Award® winner Jordan Peele — Brandon and a group of his fellow Kanbar students have gathered to screen a collection of classic original episodes, and to share their perspectives on the enduring popularity and lasting impact of a series created decades before they were born.Set in a typical  midcentury American suburb,
on what at first appears to be a typical day, “The Monsters Are Due on Maple Street” explores the ways in which a carefully planted seed of doubt can quickly grow into a choking vine of paranoia. A celestial phenomenon followed by a power outage and a series of strange technological aberrations, coupled with a child’s suggestion that covert aliens might be in their midst, inexorably leads to mass hysteria that turns neighbor against neighbor. In the final scene, we learn that aliens are, in fact, orchestrating the malfunctions remotely — and then sitting back to watch the humans destroy themselves.Sydney Rudman: “This episode really exemplifies how people use opinions as facts, and I think that the modern parallel is someone spitting out ideas that they’ve received from their parents, or that their peers give them, or that they see online.” Alexander Sennett: “I have a little brother, 17, and he’ll tell me things that he reads on [social media] that are just not true. He fully believes in these narratives that people spread.” Olumuyiwa Baker: “We live in a time of so much misinformation that whatever people want to hear, they’ll go with that. That’s why this episode is so amazing; it shows how this social phenomenon happens, how fascism happens so quickly. It’s the human condition.”Izik Alequin: “It’s creepy how weirdly prescient and smart this is in the sense of hacking, the Internet Research Agency and Russia, and fomenting cyber warfare and violence from afar by taking advantage of our differences.” 
Cameron Laventure (Brandon’s brother): “That reveal at the end was where the idea of it really hit home for me. There are powerful figures controlling us — but in real life it’s not spacemen; it’s influential people at the top of the hierarchy who benefit from stoking our prejudices, turning us against each other.” Stirling DuBell: “This episode was actually in my middle school’s short-story curriculum; that’s how influential it is. It’s just really good storytelling.”
“Eye of the Beholder” is set in a totalitarian society that demands conformity. As Janet Tyler awaits the results of her 11th medical procedure to correct a hideous facial deformity, we learn of the suffering caused by her isolation, her doctor’s growing (and risky) empathy, and the draconian measures she’ll face should his last-ditch effort fail. The eventual revelation of her post-procedure appearance remains one of Hollywood’s most famous twist endings. Cameron: “What makes it so powerful is that it begins by identifying us with this character through her relatable fears, and only slowly do we learn that it’s this dystopian other world. It explores the arbitrariness of beauty standards in a way that’s really gripping and fascinating — as much now, I should think, as it was then.” Riya Thapar: “You could just colorize these episodes and tell people they were shot today, and people would still be, ‘Oh, my mind is blown.’” Jordan Mailes: “There’s a reason that there are still ‘Twilight Zone’ marathons on television. If it weren’t relevant today, they wouldn’t be screening it. Our age group, all of us have seen episodes. We still connect with them.”Many of the students also acknowledged a much-chronicled fact: The cinematic and narrative techniques employed in “The Twilight Zone” have profoundly influenced the evolution of the artform over the past half-century, and have inspired many of today’s top practitioners.Aiden Kutcher: “They have picked up these tactics from ‘The Twilight Zone,’ such as not showing the monster to make you more afraid of it. To me, it’s the foundation of this theatrical cinematic creepiness.” Stirling: “I think what makes ‘The Twilight Zone’ so everlasting is its attention to detail in the way that shots were composed. The shadows in this episode, the little insert shots like the nurse rolling up the bandages to increase the tension, the shots where the doctor and nurse are completely blacked out — those stay in your mind after the episode is done. And not just with this episode, but so many others.”As with the majority  of “Twilight Zone” episodes, “Deaths-Head Revisited” was penned by Serling, who was known for infusing his work with his passionately held beliefs. In this case, Serling’s experience as a Jewish World War II veteran powerfully informs his screenplay, resulting in one of the series’ more brutally gut-wrenching episodes. In it, a Nazi war criminal returns to the scene of his atrocities to revel in the memories of his glory days, only to be confronted, judged and condemned by the ghosts of those he tormented, tortured and murdered.Izik: “As dark as this episode is, there’s that tinge of hope in the sense that there is retribution in the end. I wonder if something like this made today would still have that tinge of hope. I feel our viewpoint in society today is maybe a bit more cynical.” Cameron: “This episode is so powerful, even today. At the same time, this was looking at the crimes of another country. It would be really interesting to see if the new ‘Twilight Zone’ will turn that lens, that same outrage, inward on U.S. history.”Many of the students were similarly intrigued by the ways in which the episode’s motifs relate to domestic events, both recent and historical.Aiden: “Remaking it today, I wonder who steps into the place of that protagonist that has evaded justice for so long. I picture a rich businessman walking around his mansion haunted by all the people he’s harmed.” Jordan: “Not that they’re at all the same thing, but thematically the idea of people having to pay for what they’ve done in the past really applies now to the Me Too Movement.” Brandon: “Rod Serling created ‘The Twilight Zone’ so he could say controversial things through these high-concept sci-fi fantasy scenarios. So much of this show is about justice, and good and evil, with a strong world view to that end ... We're hungry for justice.”One of the most famous “Twilight Zone” episodes, “To Serve Man” also boasts one of the most famous catch phrases in the franchise’s history. When a race of giant humanoids lands on earth, the world’s initial apprehension all too quickly changes to welcoming acceptance as the aliens’ promised gifts to humanity — technological advancements, medical miracles, free vacations on another planet — seem to prove true. Indeed, all evidence supports the visitors’ claims of benevolence. Until, that is,  one industrious human, the protagonist’s assistant, manages to translate more than just the title of the visitors’ eponymous tome, “To Serve Man,” and reveals the shocking truth in the penultimate scene.Stirling: “This is the first ‘Twilight Zone’ I was made aware of because my mom would tell me ‘Twilight Zone’ plots as bedtime stories. I don’t know if that’s normal for a mother to do to a six-year-old child, but it’s still chilling to hear [the assistant] say, ‘It’s a cookbook!’” Izik: “This is a little on the nose, but I was just thinking that [the aliens] are like a social media company: They're coming and saying, ‘We're just here to make the world a better place.’ And they connect everybody, make things better, but really they're consuming you in the process.” Aiden: “It's funny that you said social media because it made me think of the negative connotations about our relationship to our A.I. assistants.” Olumuyiwa: “The U.N. scenes reminded me of modern-day U.N issues like global warming. We all see it coming down the pipe, and, still, no one does anything about it.”Nina Allison: “The range that the show exhibits is so impressive. [The episodes] are seemingly really different, but there’s still this thematic consistency, this observable psychological through-line. I’d like to see that retained in the reimagining of it.”Illustrations by Sarah MaxwellThe news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.