AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Nadja SpiegelmanTHE SILK ROAD By Kathryn DavisIf writers can be said to have an animating concern that threads through their work — memory for Proust, love for Austen — then Kathryn Davis’s is none other than the animating force itself, the soul. Davis has been quietly publishing a novel every few years since 1988. She has gathered a small devoted following, and yet she is refreshingly unconcerned with wider success.Her writing exists outside of genre and trends and time. She operates in a mode that could be called surreal realism, where the boundaries between reality and fantasy dissolve into a place where imagination is akin to gravity and exerts a pull just as powerful. Her eighth novel is even more metaphysical and experimental than its predecessors. If a Hilma af Klint painting could become a book, it would be this one.“The Silk Road” opens with a mystery. Eight cosmic beings, whose memories of a shared childhood lead us to believe they are siblings (though they are perhaps variations on a single soul, reincarnations of one another), are taking a yoga class in a subterranean labyrinth somewhere in the arctic north. They are referred to only by their professions: the Astronomer, the Archivist, the Botanist, the Keeper, the Topologist, the Geographer, the Iceman and the Cook. The class is led by the enigmatic Jee Moon, who is described as “shrouded in something aqueous.” Someone, though we never learn who, fails to arise from corpse pose. It is deemed a murder, but no one is especially interested in solving it.The book’s other mysteries seem more pressing to a reader — what state of existence are these beings in, who is Jee Moon, where are we, what is the plague that has decimated the population — and yet the novel is just as uninterested in answering them.“The Silk Road” merits being read twice, not because there is more joy to be found in the language once you know where the story is going but because there is something else to be found once you surrender to a journey without a destination.Journeys are another of Davis’s fascinations. As with the soul, the theme that thrummed underneath her other novels becomes central here. In the beginning, the characters (if they can be called that; their personalities are only hastily sketched) tell how they each arrived in this settlement: terrestrial tales of poetry readings, hiking trips and car accidents, though these stories swerve and never finish.Halfway through the book, the siblings embark on an excursion, though where and why we are not told, and time folds in on itself. They are on this new journey and on every journey they have undertaken before, together or separately, together and separately, until they inhabit one another’s memories and one by one they disappear — though even this description makes it sound too concrete.If the trip is like anything, it is a psychedelic one, an ayahuasca journey complete with heavy symbolism. The objects that emerge from the fog are signposts for signposts — tarot cards, constellations, tokens, the three-line gallows of a children’s game of Hangman.Davis’s language has been compared to music, and though she can craft a lyrical sentence (“Not that mother was particularly big, just sweeping like a generalization”), much of the writing here reads more like an oblique spiritual handbook. (“Voluntary action arises from within, from the unpredictable movement of a single atom.”)“The Silk Road” is more like music in its harmonies: Davis pulls from folk songs, French ballads, nursery rhymes; from Hindu gods and Greek ones; from Chinese and Western astronomy. Every source is blended into the ur-source, the life source, the blinding white of every color seen at once.“The Silk Road” is unlikely to make its way onto any best-seller lists. And yet, for those willing to get lost in its spiritual haze, there is a uniquely un-2019 pleasure to be found: a meditative bewilderment that just might cede to enlightenment.Nadja Spiegelman is the author of the memoir “I’m Supposed to Protect You From All This” and three comics for children. She is the online editor at The Paris Review.THE SILK ROAD By Kathryn Davis 132 pp. Graywolf Press. $24.Advertisement