AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Sunday about black artists finding success after 70 included an erroneous distinction about the artist McArthur Binion’s education. While he earned a graduate degree from the Cranbrook Academy of Art, he was not the first African-American student to do so.•An article on Sunday about the effect of Medicare for All on private health insurance companies misidentified the state Senator Cory Booker represents. It is New Jersey, not California.•An article on Friday about authoritarian governments that hire hackers from the private market misidentified the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moody’s originated from the company NSO, not Moody’s.PAGES A2-A3The “Here to Help” article on Friday, which gave a recipe for penne with peas, pea greens and Parmesan, misspelled the surname of the author. She is Martha Rose Shulman, not Schulman.INTERNATIONALAn article on Saturday about Italy’s decision to join China’s One Belt One Road project misspelled part of the Chinese prime minister’s name. He is Li Keqiang, not Kequiang.•An article on Sunday about a march in London to protest Brexit misidentified where in New York the protester Olivia Leydenfrost grew up. It was in Nyack, not Manhattan.NATIONALA picture with an article on Saturday about the acquittal of the police officer who shot Antwon Rose II, using information from The Associated Press, was published in error. The framed photograph it showed, displayed as part of a memorial in front of the Allegheny County Courthouse, was not of Antwon Rose II.•Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about the annual Aipac conference referred incorrectly to Senator Amy Klobuchar. It is not the case that she will be speaking this year at the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.•An article on Saturday about Attorney General William P. Barr misstated his age. He is 68, not 69.•An article on Monday about a video made by members of Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity at the University of Georgia included a quotation from a University of Georgia student that referred incorrectly to Richard B. Russell Jr. While he was a segregationist, he was not a slave owner.NEW YORKAn article on Saturday about the Gambino murder suspect Anthony Comello misidentified the origin of the QAnon conspiracy theory. It was born on the 4chan message board, not on Reddit.BUSINESSAn article on Sunday about Boeing’s competition with Airbus misstated the number of 737 Maxes that Boeing makes a month. It is making a record 52 737s a month, but not all of them are Maxes.•An article on Monday about why people procrastinate referred incorrectly to the university at which Judson Brewer is employed. He is the director of research and innovation at Brown University’s Mindfulness Center, not the director of research at the Center of Mindfulness and associate professor of medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.SPORTSAn article on Saturday about the University of Southern California athletic administrator Donna Heinel misstated one of Ms. Heinel’s titles at U.S.C. She was the senior woman administrator, not the senior women’s administrator.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Feb. 27 about the documentarian Perry Wolff misstated his involvement in the CBS News documentaries “Hunger in America,” “The Selling of the Pentagon” and “You and the Commercial.” He was executive producer, not producer.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement