AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Merritt TierceRAG Stories By Maryse MeijerThe slim size of “Rag,” a disturbing, forceful story collection by Maryse Meijer, belies the profusion of terrors contained within it. No matter how ordinary or powerless the character, to each unfortunate soul yet inheres a magnificent, perhaps infinite, capacity for suffering. “If she had wanted something nice to happen to her she would have chosen someone nice” serves both as a description of one woman’s open-eyed masochism and a cautionary banner over a book that could be read as a field guide to varieties of misery, much of which is experienced by women and girls.In Meijer’s sharp, haunting stories, most of that violence is perpetrated by men — a note she sounds without attenuation, in a way that will undoubtedly call forth protests of “Not all…” in some readers and approving nods of “Right, right, the patriarchy is a horror show” in others. Men are more violent than women, a fact we are prone to invoking not as a statistic but either meekly, as a quandary, or gravely, as a judgment; at a time of viral outrage like the #MeToo moment, we may sense gradations but are afraid to be labeled apologists. Yet the effect of a fairy tale, a designation often applied to Meijer’s work — a previous collection of stories, “Heartbreaker,” and a novella, “Northwood” — depends on its clear delineation of good and evil. To understand the monstrous we must draw a monster so unmistakable as to represent the opposite of an equally unmistakable innocence or virtue. To this end, then, let the man be volatile, depraved and abusive, duplicitous if not hateful, creepy if not a rapist, feckless if not heartless.Opening with “Her Blood,” a story about a grisly miscarriage, and closing with “Rag,” an experimental fable about a dreadfully intimate murder, Meijer traverses an impressive range of emotional, psychological and physical traumas, with a near-total investment in sketching atrocity rather than deciphering it. In that undertaking she certainly succeeds. She writes wonderfully of the trap of the self, with its impossible prisons of circumstance and identity, not to mention the perversity of being buried alive, alone, inside a body. She has a strong facility for translating interior states — “He wonders if he should give the boy money. Or a hug. He needs to figure out the appropriate gesture and then make it so he can go” — and for making acute, satisfying observations: “But the house wasn’t empty. You can always tell. The pressure of living, no matter how small, pushes out from a place.”Such keen insights provide breathing room from a relentless dictate that in these stories, for these characters, there shall be no desire without pain. All instances of anything approximating love or tenderness arrive in hock to cruelty. Is that sadistic? If desire itself is certainly a form of pain — because to want a connection is to experience a lack, a space that can be exploited — perhaps these stories are merely descriptive. At times the book delivers more spectacle than impact, and risks projecting a gothic mood untethered to an interpretive framework. But Meijer’s willingness to write fiercely into the abyss deserves respect, and maybe the darkness of the untethering is the point, or at least an accurate depiction of life’s obscenities. Any one of us may know unendurable affliction without the means to comprehend it.Merritt Tierce is the author of the novel “Love Me Back.”RAG Stories By Maryse Meijer 144 pp. FSG Originals. Paper, $15.Advertisement