AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Darnell L. MooreSURVIVAL MATH Notes on an All-American Family By Mitchell S. JacksonIn a conversation published in Essence magazine in 1984, Audre Lorde and James Baldwin engaged in an impassioned debate centered on the plight of black people living under the weight of racism in America. Baldwin thought Lorde was too hard on black men — who he argued are beset by racism in exceptionally pernicious ways — when she criticized their treatment of black girls and women. Lorde was as concerned about misogyny as racism, but Baldwin demanded to know how she could “blame the black man for a situation which has nothing to do with him.” Ever the master of black feminist poetics, Lorde was also a sage who knew how to reframe fragile arguments into teachable observations. “I’m not interested in blame,” she said. “I’m interested in changing.”This was Lorde’s challenge, her mandate to black male writers: an insistence that black men reckon with both racism and their complicity in patriarchy. Mitchell S. Jackson’s memoir, “Survival Math,” is his response.Jackson’s work is a model of autobiographical writing that demonstrates how reportage and critical attention to the complexities of black life — its intersectional textures — can be the source material for an inimitable memoir. He offers an account of his own family’s existence in Oregon, a predominantly white state where, until 1926, it was still illegal for black people to take up residence. Jackson’s maternal great-grandparents, Mama Edie and Bubba, would later make their home in a “white house the size of a small palace” on the corner of Sixth and Mason in Portland after the exclusionary law was overturned. Like so many other black people, Jackson’s progenitors “transformed themselves — in no small part by forging lives for themselves outside of the South — into as much of a nation as they have ever been (it seems sometimes into as much of one as they may ever be) in the Other America.”Jackson’s story of a black family living in Oregon feels particularly timely. He grew up surrounded by the kind of white, working-class and overlooked people who make up Donald Trump’s base and have been seen as responsible for his rise. “Survival Math” reminds us that a place like Oregon, where part of that “Other America” lives, is not uniformly white. Black people are also part of its history. And their quests to live, survive and be remembered are as worthy of book-length treatments as those of their white counterparts.[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of March. See the full list. ]Throughout “Survival Math,” Jackson writes with a keen attentiveness to the social contexts shaping the lives of his family, offering nuanced depictions that upend the stereotypes that often cage us in. His is, after all, “the generation of babies born-and-raised in the ’70s and ’80s whose lives were transformed by an unprecedented phenomenological portent. We being the first generation of crack dealers who were the children of crack addicts.” Some of his family members were indeed crack dealers and crack addicts; some were also pimps, gangbangers and prostitutes. And he pairs the vivid everyday insights of those black people — especially those imagined as incapable of depth, of appreciating virtue and its manifestations — with those of lauded white philosophers and theorists, like Plato, Kant and Baudelaire.Jackson refuses to describe his people as lacking love or being unworthy of love. In one of many heartbreaking scenes, he recalls the death of his aunt Essie Carie Jackson, who was a prostitute. She was murdered at a young age, but he describes her as a “beloved aunt, cousin, sister, daughter, mother.” It takes courage not to shy away from writing what is true — even when the truth is painful. In his notes, Jackson writes to his “fam” to justify including the story of Essie’s life and tragic murder. He laments that “it ain’t easy writing about folks you love and about the loved ones of folks you love. There’s often a decision between protecting who you love and protecting the integrity of what you set out to do.”Jackson characterizes neither his people nor himself as perfect, but at the same time he refuses to treat them as disposable. He exposes their inner lives, then approaches them with radical love. And to love, as Jackson seems to understand, is to avoid lying. So he grapples honestly, for instance, with the role of the father figures in his life: “I had a father,” he writes, “because I made one. Or rather, I composed a father from the men at hand, brothers who kept me long before Obama made it a project.” His composite father consisted of his mother’s boyfriend Big Chris; his maternal grandfather, Sam; his maternal uncle, Anthony; his basketball coach Dixon; and his biological father, Wesley. Yet their part in raising and mentoring Jackson did not mean these men always made the best choices. He is clear that “not a single man I mentioned has existed in my life beyond critique.” Nor has Jackson himself existed beyond critique, and he freely admits to being “a flawed human striving, striving.”One of the most striking facets of Jackson’s book is the way he bares himself — and here he most clearly answers Audre Lorde’s request of black men to commit to internal work that can result in change and accountability. Jackson, like his contemporary Kiese Laymon, author of the recent memoir “Heavy,” has produced a work that faces this task head on, work Jackson refers to as “revision.” He seeks to determine “if it’s possible to apply the skills for revising the page to revising a life, and if that revision or revisioning could transform what someone had misperceived or forecasted as their fate.”His book is a testament that revision is not only possible but necessary. Where Jackson demonstrates this most plainly is in his worthy decision to include “victim statements” from five of his previous intimate partners, who attest to the ways he too has oppressed. The result is unlike anything readers may have come upon before in a memoir: a stunning move from blame to an honest calculation of how one black man’s actions and inactions hurt the black women he claimed to love. The epilogue, which is a letter to Jackson’s daughter, Justice, is bountiful in sweetness, but it too contains the words of a person who has come to realize that the inheritances we leave — our presences, absences, lies, gifts, hurts, truths — are never passed along without consequences. The choices we make, the manipulations and contortions we go through in order to survive in these United States, are always shaped by what the scholar Saidiya Hartman has described (in her book “Lose Your Mother”) as an entrenched “racial calculus and a political arithmetic.”“Survival Math” makes it clear that blackness is never a deficit. And yet as Jackson reminds us, even those of us who are black men must be certain not to rely on a computational system, steeped in anti-black racist patriarchy, to save ourselves while harming others.Darnell L. Moore is the author of “No Ashes in the Fire: Coming of Age Black and Free in America.”SURVIVAL MATH Notes on an All-American Family By Mitchell S. Jackson Illustrated. 315 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26Advertisement