AdvertisementSupported byBy Sophia KishkovskyMOSCOW — A Russian court on Monday sentenced a Muslim human rights activist to four years in a penal colony on drug possession charges widely seen as manufactured to further a crackdown on dissent in the Chechnya region.The activist, Oyub Titiev, 61, had worked for years investigating allegations of abuse ranging from torture to murder under the increasingly autocratic rule of the Chechen leader, Ramzan Kadyrov.Mr. Kadyrov publicly called Mr. Titiev a junkie after his arrest in January 2018.“Drug addicts were arrested in Chechnya by the thousands, and no one came to their defense,” Mr. Kadyrov said on Chechen television at the time. But as soon as Mr. Titiev was arrested, he complained, “the entire world rose up.”The organization where Mr. Titiev worked, a local branch of the Memorial Human Rights Center, was placed on a Russian government registry of “foreign agents” in 2014.Dunja Mijatovic, the Council of Europe commissioner for human rights, said in a statement after the sentencing that she was dismayed by the court’s action.The accusations against Mr. Titiev, she said, “lacked credibility” from the outset, and his conviction “is but the latest example of the hostile and dangerous environment in which human rights defenders operate in the Chechen Republic.”Mr. Titiev took over the running of Memorial in Chechnya, in the North Caucasus, after his colleague Natalya Estemirova, a persistent critic of Mr. Kadyrov’s, was kidnapped and then found dead in 2009.A politician and a journalist who had both attracted Mr. Kadyrov’s ire have also been jailed on drug possession charges. And a purge against gay men attracted widespread criticism.The judge at the Shali City Court in Chechnya took nearly nine hours to read out the text of her decision, according to Memorial and journalists reporting from the courthouse.Mediazona, a news site that tracks judicial system abuses, reported that the judge said she did not believe Mr. Titiev’s testimony, but trusted the words of the police. They said they had found over 200 grams of marijuana in his car, according to the prosecution’s case.In arguments heard in court on March 11, one of Mr. Titiev’s lawyers, Ilya Novikov, said the prosecution was making a concerted effort not just to have the activist convicted of drug possession but also to paint him as a drug addict.In his final statement in court on that same day, Mr. Titiev named specific police officials and witnesses who he said falsified evidence and testimony in his case, and compared their actions to those of the Stalin era.Although he did not mention Mr. Kadyrov by name, he spoke of the murder of Ms. Estemirova and the climate of fear.“In a democratic country,” Mr. Titiev said, “people are not imprisoned for a single ‘like’ on the internet, are not grabbed on the streets, are not put behind bars.”Marie Struthers, Amnesty International’s director for Eastern Europe and Central Asia, said in a statement that the sentence “is an affront to human rights, reason and justice.” The Russian authorities, she said, supported a “sham trial” by failing to move the proceedings out of Chechnya and away from local pressure.Rachel Denber, deputy Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said, “That this groundless case has gone so far is a colossal injustice to Titiev and an embarrassment to Russia’s criminal justice system.”Also on Monday, President Vladimir V. Putin signed a law that would allow for fines for spreading news deemed to be “fake,” as well as fines and short prison sentences for insulting government officials and state symbols.The law is seen as the latest attempt by the Kremlin to muzzle dissenting voices nationally amid louder public grumbling about poor economic conditions and social services.Advertisement