AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnDesiree Akhavan’s “The Miseducation of Cameron Post” is on HBO. And Patricia Arquette stars in a new true-crime anthology series on Hulu.THE MISEDUCATION OF CAMERON POST (2018) 9:45 p.m. on HBO. The actress Chloë Grace Moretz portrayed two characters in punishing settings last year. In Luca Guadagnino’s “Suspiria,” she played a student missing from a backbreaking West Berlin dance academy. And she played the title character in this movie, directed by Desiree Akhavan and based on a young-adult novel by Emily Danforth. Set in the early 1990s, the film centers on Cameron, an 11th-grader whose family sends her to a boarding school for anti-gay “conversion therapy.” The story follows Cameron as she befriends Jane (Sasha Lane) and Adam (Forrest Goodluck), two other teenagers in the program who rebel, in part, by way of a makeshift pot farm squirreled away in the woods. Though the film doesn’t let those running the school, including the headmistress (played by Jennifer Ehle) and her brother (John Gallagher Jr.), off the hook, it takes pains to paint a morally complex picture. Akhavan “steers away from cliché, and the cast avoids caricature,” A. O. Scott wrote in his review for The New York Times. “There is a delicate humanism at work here that feels especially refreshing, a commitment to respecting differences without sacrificing a clear ethical point of view.”O BROTHER, WHERE ART THOU? (2000) 5:30 p.m. on AMC. When the soundtrack to this Coen brothers fable was released in 2000, Daniel Menaker wrote in The Times that it “has to be one of the least mainstream Hollywood soundtracks ever offered for sale.” With modern recordings of traditional American music performed by the likes of Alison Krauss and Emmylou Harris, the soundtrack, produced by T Bone Burnett, added to the dusty period feel of this Depression-era comedy, a reimagining of Homer’s “The Odyssey.” George Clooney, John Turturro and Tim Blake Nelson star as convicts whose sordid adventures include becoming folk singers.BUBLÉ! 10 p.m. on NBC. The dusty prison stripes worn by the singing convicts of “O Brother, Where Art Thou?” are a shabby sight next to the crisp suit and tie worn by Michael Bublé in this new special, which pairs the crooner with a 36-piece orchestra. He performs songs from his recent album, “Love,” alongside standards like “My Funny Valentine” and “Fly Me to the Moon.”THE ACT Stream on Hulu. The first season of this new true-crime anthology series stars Patricia Arquette as Dee Dee Blanchard, a Missouri mother whose bizarre, abusive relationship with her daughter, Gypsy Rose (Joey King), culminated in murder. Chloë Sevigny plays the Blanchards’ neighbor. The case was the subject of an HBO documentary in 2017; the telling here, created by Nick Antosca (showrunner of “Channel Zero”) and the journalist Michelle Dean (who  covered the Blanchard tragedy for Buzzfeed News) leans into the more surreal elements of the case, and draws out intense performances from its leads.Advertisement