AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.New Zealand mourns after a massacre, Ethiopian flight data reveals similarities in two Boeing crashes, and a clickbait queen becomes a target. Here’s the latest:New Zealand tried to come to grips with grief and horror unlike anything in its modern history after a gunman targeted worshipers at two mosques in Christchurch on Friday, killing at least 50. Twelve of the injured, including a 4-year-old girl, remained in critical condition.The country’s small Muslim community grappled with the loss. And the police arrested a suspect, Brenton Harrison Tarrant, a 28-year-old Australian, who has been charged with murder. He posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook. Our tech correspondent called it a mass murder of, and for, the internet. Follow the latest updates here.Interviews and videos suggest that a bystander and police preparedness may have helped limit the death toll.Gun debate: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern promised stricter gun controls. But the issue could be divisive in New Zealand, where there are more than 1.2 million firearms among a population of 4.6 million. We compared the rules for buying a gun in 16 countries.In Australia: A far-right senator who blamed the attacks on immigration was egged by a teenage boy, and responded with punches.How to help: Here’s our guide to groups offering aid.Information from the data and voice recorders of an Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 jet that crashed last weekend show similarities to an earlier crash of the same type of Boeing plane off Indonesia in October, Ethiopia’s transport ministry said. There were no details yet, but the government said they would be revealed soon.A software program aboard the Max 8 planes is a central focus of investigators. It was installed in the new planes as a way of preventing stalls, and it works by forcing the nose of the plane down. In the Indonesia crash, there are indications that the system acted in error and that the pilots had trouble overriding the software’s actions. There are signs the same could have happened in Ethiopia, though the cause of neither crash has been determined.Another area of focus is pilot training. There are growing questions about whether Boeing adequately apprised the international pilot community of the software.Grief: Mourners dressed in black streamed into a vast churchyard in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, waving pictures of loved ones who died in the crash, which killed 157 people. Many did not expect to ever recover remains of their relatives.The Trump administration’s global campaign against Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant, is facing major resistance. U.S. scolding and threats have failed to persuade even some of its closest allies to bar Huawei from building fifth-generation, or 5G, wireless networks, the next iteration of the internet. U.S. officials point to new Chinese security laws that require Huawei and other companies to provide information to intelligence officials. But European and Asian officials have complained privately that recent American intelligence briefings on Huawei were scant on evidence of espionage.Details: Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates are signaling they probably will not back the American effort to ban Huawei entirely from building their 5G networks. And even while some countries like Britain share America’s concerns, they argue that the security risks can be managed by keeping a close eye on the company and its software. In the U.S.: Cindy Yang, a Chinese immigrant, has faced scrutiny over her previous ownership of a massage parlor in Florida. And she engaged in murky fund-raising to gain access to President Trump at an event at his Mar-a-Lago club, and set up a company promising rich Chinese clients entree to the social scene around the president.On her blog, Ma Ling, 41, had doled out advice on love and dating, and charged advertisers up to $113,000 for a mention. But last month she went silent, after a post about a hard-working young man dying of cancer started a national discussion about inequality and also led to accusations of inaccuracies. Her social media accounts were wiped from the internet.President Xi Jinping is expanding the Communist Party’s vast censorship apparatus to one of the most vibrant corners of the Chinese internet: the more than one million self-help gurus, novelists, sportswriters and other independent writers like Ms. Ma who make up the so-called self-media. The competition for clicks has led to an alarming increase in fake news, which the government often uses to justify its crackdown.Censorship appears to be getting more arbitrary and unpredictable, targeting everything from reporting on a chemical spill to celebrity gossip writers. Other offenses: “flaunting wealth” and “challenging public order.”By the numbers: Since December, the authorities have closed more than 140,000 blogs and deleted more than 500,000 articles, according to the state-run news media, saying that they contained false information, distortions or obscenities.In Indonesia: A sweeping online criminal defamation law has allowed the arrest of a professor who sang an old anti-army song in a video, and 10 months in prison for a housewife who sent four WhatsApp messages that a local company found insulting.Trade war: China and the U.S. are pushing to complete a trade deal next month, but with Washington planning to hold the threat of tariffs over Beijing to ensure compliance, some fear the economic damage and uncertainty from the trade war could persist.Philippines: The country formally withdrew from the International Criminal Court as it faced a preliminary inquiry into whether President Rodrigo Duterte had engaged in mass murder and crimes against humanity in his bloody and extrajudicial drug crackdown. On Thursday, Mr. Duterte publicly released a new list of people that he claims are “narcopoliticians” — including many who are his political opponents. Cyclone: More than 150 people were killed in a huge cyclone that hit Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. Hundreds more were missing, and tens of thousands of others were stranded in mainly poor, rural areas, officials said.Indonesia: Flash flooding in the province of Papua killed at least 50 people and injured 59 near the provincial capital, Jayapura, disaster officials said. Rescuers were searching for survivors.Afghanistan: Officials said that the Taliban had taken 150 soldiers prisoner after chasing units into neighboring Turkmenistan, where they were turned back.North Korea: Its leader, Kim Jong-un, will soon decide whether to resume nuclear and missile tests, the government announced last week, as it threatened to suspend negotiations with the Trump administration after a failed summit meeting in Vietnam.Recycling: With China no longer accepting used plastic and paper, American communities are facing steep collection bills, forcing them to end their programs or burn or bury more waste.Perspective: Much of the news of the last week has focused on wealthy families buying access to colleges. But here’s a ray of sunshine: Tanitoluwa Adewumi, 8, a Nigerian refugee who is the newly crowned chess champion in his age group in New York State, mastering the board in only a year while living in a homeless shelter.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: “Slow-roasted” citrus salmon takes only 30 minutes, and it’s nearly impossible to overcook. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)A few simple distractions that don’t involve electronics can ease traveling with children.The writer, director and actor Lena Dunham writes that coziness is helping her cope with chronic pain.NASA is planning the first all-female spacewalk this month.As it happens, the first spacewalk was on this day, in 1965, by the cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. It was a major Soviet advance in the space race.The plans had been kept secret, so Soviet broadcasts of the event caught most of the world by surprise, including Lieutenant Colonel Leonov’s family. “What is he doing?” his 4-year-old daughter cried. “Please tell Daddy to get back inside.”After he retired, Mr. Leonov revealed how many times the mission neared disaster. In a 2004 book, “Two Sides of the Moon,” he detailed how high pressure in his spacesuit nearly prevented him from re-entering the capsule.A systems failure forced him and his fellow crew member to manually guide re-entry. They landed in Siberia, without communications, and endured days of frigid temperatures, with one pistol to ward off wolves.After they were found, the hardy pair skied miles to a rescue helicopter.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement