AdvertisementSupported byGilles Aillaud’s portraits of zoo animals; Paul Mpagi Sepuya’s homoerotic photographs; Christina Forrer’s paintings on a loom; and the BRIC Biennial’s third South Brooklyn Edition.Through May 11. Ortuzar Projects, 9 White Street, Manhattan; 212-257-0033, ortuzarprojects.com.For decades, American art students have learned that the years around 1968 saw the triumph of conceptual art, process-based sculpture, environmental interventions and body-oriented performances — and only now,  at half a century’s distance, are we admitting that figurative painting had its place too in the late-60s art world, especially in Western Europe. Gilles Aillaud (1928-2005) was a central actor of Narrative Figuration during Paris’s years of student revolt, as well as a set designer at Europe’s top avant-garde theaters. But “Paintings 1964-1976,” with eight coolly composed portraits of animals in zoos, is the first showcase of his works in New York since a show at Gladstone Gallery in 1982.Aillaud and two other young painters stormed to scandalous prominence in 1965 with the collective series “Live and Let Die, or the Tragic Death of Marcel Duchamp,” which pictured the young French artists assassinating the father figure of the avant-garde. (They were also, by symbolically murdering a Frenchman who’d become an American citizen, spitting on contemporary Parisian envy of the New York School.) By 1967 Aillaud had turned to zoos, and before and after the student uprising he painted tortoises, rhinos, porcupines and pythons under heat lamps or beside industrial pipes. In a bare blue cage we see two soporific lions, their eyes vacant, their fur painted with aloof strokes of white. Two hippopotamuses, their thick skin evenly rendered in bronze and burnt umber, float in an aquarium like corpses. The animals never do anything in these zoo paintings. They don’t even meet our gaze; they just laze about on concrete and cinder blocks. It is a stifled view, conversant with the 19th-century tradition of animalier painting, but stripped of any allegorical comfort.Back in left-wing Paris 50 years ago, Aillaud’s silent, unconsoling art appeared as the antithesis of gestural American abstraction, offering the most alienated view of an industrial capitalist society. They may be more moving today, in an era of climate emergency, when no distinction holds between the natural the man-made. JASON FARAGOThrough April 13. Team Gallery, 83 Grand Street, Manhattan; 212-279-9219, teamgal.com.Paul Mpagi Sepuya is experiencing a flush of success right now, and his new show — “The Conditions,” at Team Gallery — demonstrates that it is well deserved. His work appears on the cover of Artforum’s March issue and will be included in the 2019 Whitney Biennial. Mr. Sepuya is not an overnight sensation, however; over a decade of working, exhibiting and returning to art school to study with the great photographer Catherine Opie at the University of California, Los Angeles helped him to arrive at a distinctive and timely amalgam of portraiture and conceptual photography.Mr. Sepuya’s photographs are like visual puzzles. He appears in many of them, but in fragmented form and usually with a camera in hand. Some of the works show multiple hands holding cameras, suggesting that authorship is always some sort of collaboration. Pushing that out further, you, the viewer are reflected against the dark backdrops in the picture and if you photograph Mr. Sepuya’s works (as I of course did), your hand and camera end up nestled surprisingly amid the gesturing fingers of him and his subjects.“The Conditions” could refer to lighting, studio setups, or social conditions. Mr. Sepuya’s photographs have often been categorized as “queer” (that is, within the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender cosmos), but they feel more universal to me: Multifarious shades of melanin are represented, and he has included images of women in this show. And while the history of representing bodies in photography — particularly nude ones — is fraught, Mr. Sepuya charges intrepidly into the mire, offering what feel like new, smart conclusions on how to represent power or vulnerability, as well as the unwavering desire to look at such images. MARTHA SCHWENDENERThrough April 13. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, Manhattan; 212-206-9100, luhringaugustine.com.Making pictures on a loom, as the Swiss-born, Los Angeles-based artist Christina Forrer does, instead of on canvas or paper, checks a couple of interesting boxes automatically. It invokes the serious feminist art project of reclaiming “women’s work” and at the same time it lampoons the contemporary art world’s infatuation with digital media. A tapestry is a reminder that French artisans mastered pixelation, as well as a kind of analog coding, a good 500 years before the internet.The way Ms. Forrer does it, flinging loose clusters of marauding, Muppet-like figures across backgrounds of bold color and complex pattern, also tempers the pictures’ importance as pictures. Not that you don’t still look first at the purple girl with enormous green eyes in “Three Awake,” for example. It’s just that the rich patch of indigo you’ll subsequently notice in the piece’s upper left corner is equally significant.Another way to put it would be to say that Ms. Forrer’s woven sprites and the rich but indistinct worlds they inhabit all seem of a piece, which lends her scenes of giddy mayhem an appropriately dreamlike quality. Some of the nearly 20 characters that inhabit the 10-foot-tall “Untitled (brown background)” issue from others’ mouths, and it’s impossible to tell whether the whole bunch of them are meant to be flying, falling or frozen in place, whether they’re fighting one another to the death or just desperately holding on. WILL HEINRICHThrough April 7. Gallery at BRIC House, 647 Fulton Street, Brooklyn; 718-683-5600, bricartsmedia.org.In 2014, the arts organization BRIC inaugurated its biennial, an attempt to survey Brooklyn artists by neighborhoods. Flawed though it is, with a focus on geography that can seem arbitrary, the endeavor has proved valuable at spotlighting some of the borough’s abundant creativity.“BRIC Biennial: Volume III, South Brooklyn Edition,” which features 19 artists and six satellite shows, is a satisfyingly cohesive rumination on dislocation. Katya Grokhovsky focuses on her 93-year-old Jewish grandmother, who survived World War II and immigrated from post-Soviet Ukraine to Australia. She tells her stories in Ms. Grokhovsky’s absorbing video, “The Future Is Bright,” (2018) which screens opposite a sculpture whose explosiveness suggests the impossibility of encapsulating a life.Other artists take a more formal approach. Jordan Nassar collaborates with traditional Palestinian embroiderers on patterned landscapes that delicately entwine his Palestinian and American identities. The sisters Lisa and Janelle Iglesias, a.k.a. Las Hermanas Iglesias, live on different coasts and worked back and forth on the sculpture “Chasing Their Ponytails” (2016-18), which looks like a quirky contraption for decontextualizing everyday items.In Brooklyn, any exhibition about displacement would be incomplete without confronting harsh realities. Fortunately, Connie Kang and Danielle Wu, two members of An/Other, an arts advocacy group for Asians, have curated “Virtual and Real Estate,” a small but mighty show in an adjacent gallery. The centerpiece is Betty Yu’s deeply researched inquiry into the gentrification of Sunset Park. Her earnest urgency is counterbalanced by bitingly clever contributions from Daniel Bejar and Pastiche Lumumba, whose “Woke Gentrifyer Starter Pack” (2019) skewers the New Yorker-reading, nonprofit-working, dog-owning liberal. For many Brooklyn art viewers, this may be where the BRIC Biennial hits closest to home. JILLIAN STEINHAUERAdvertisement