AdvertisementSupported byStar Trek: DiscoveryBy Sopan DebSeason 2, Episode 10: ‘The Red Angel’Every time I blinked in this week’s episode of “Star Trek: Discovery,” directed by Hanelle M. Culpepper, there seemed to be another plot twist regarding the identity of the Red Angel.It was difficult to keep track, but let me see if I can run down the key ones:— Future Burnham is the Red Angel and as she travels through time, she hopes a future bit of artificial intelligence will follow her. [A reader points out that Burnham, in a precarious state, mutters “Mom” at the very last second of the episode, so it turns out the Red Angel actually might be not Burnham.]— 20 years before, Klingons were experimenting in time travel. Huh.— Section 31 created Project Daedalus, the suit for time travel that would become the Red Angel.— Burnham’s parents were part of Section 31 and designed the suit. Their death was Leland’s fault. They obtained something called a time crystal, and Klingons traced it back to them, and murdered them over it. Burnham has carried all this grief for years — thinking she was responsible for their death — and now she finds out it wasn’t her fault.— Cornwell used to be a therapist.This is just a sampling of this disjointed, crammed episode where simply too much happened, with minimal time to process and several distracting subplots.The biggest reveal — Burnham being the Red Angel — was an ambitious, interesting twist. But far too many scenes seemed extraneous: Why did Airiam get an onscreen funeral that rivaled Spock’s from “Wrath of Khan?” Did we really need Culber having a therapy session with an admiral? And for the love of all that is Gene Roddenberry, what does Ash Tyler do? The central action of “The Red Angel” comes from the scheme to have Burnham lure the future version of herself into saving her in the present day as she suffocates. The theory is that Future Burnham needs the current version to exist in the future. Once Future Burnham is captured, Starfleet is going to have some tough questions for her.The plan is objectively insane, dangerous and should never have been greenlit, even with the fate of the universe at stake. Present Day Burnham appears to die while the rest of the Discovery crew grimly watch. Cornwell, for an inexplicable reason, demurs to her subordinate officer regarding when to pull the plug on the operation. But in typical “Discovery” fashion, what is dead may never die. Future Burnham shows up, zaps Present Day, and she lives.I must say I really got a great thrill out of seeing the reveal of Sonja Sohn as the future version of Burnham (or her mother?). She is, of course, best known for starring on “The Wire,” but she also put up a strong performance recently in the Netflix film “High Flying Bird.”Section 31’s motivations here are suspect, but not in a way that makes this rogue group compelling. In some scenes, its personnel (Leland, Evil Georgiou, Tyler) are genuinely benevolent Starfleet colleagues. In others, they’re trying to to ruin Spock’s brain. Leland, in particular, doesn’t seem to know what he’s doing. Why was it necessary for him to keep the knowledge about Burnham’s parents (or even Project Daedalus) secret from her this whole time, other than to serve the plot?The strongest part of the episode was easily the performance of Sonequa Martin-Green. She ran the gauntlet of emotions: mourning, raging, physical suffering, contemplative, authoritative, and in one scene with Spock, playful. She had an entire episode on her shoulders and delivered.And speaking of Spock: I’m speculating that we’re all going to skip over him holding crew members who wanted to stop Burnham’s suffocating at phaserpoint while disobeying direct orders.At the risk of seeming too curmudgeonly, I’ll give the writers of the show — this chapter was written by Chris Silvestri and Anthony Maranville — credit for the overarching Red Angel story line. It’s complex, risky and imaginative. “Discovery” has swung for the fences more so than any other show in the franchise’s history and it’s resulted in — ahem — the plots boldly going where no Trek has gone before.Whatever issues I had with this episode, I am definitely curious to find out more about the mystery of why Future Burnham (or her mother) is doing what she’s doing. And also: The notion that pre-Captain Kirk Starfleet developed time-travel abilities that we never heard about in any other Trek iteration is going to be a fascinating box for the writers to get themselves out of.But besides all that: If we’re going to focus on what secondary characters are doing, can we bring back Tig Notaro?Advertisement