AdvertisementSupported byNATIONALAn article on Friday about the firing of the lawyer Morris Dees by the Southern Poverty Law Center misstated the year in which Mr. Dees won $7 million in damages on behalf of the family of Michael Donald. It was 1987, not 1981.NEW YORKAn article on Thursday about the death of the mob boss Francesco Cali misstated the name of a street used as a location in the film “The Godfather.” It was Longfellow Avenue, not Road.SPORTSAn article on Thursday about the tennis player Naomi Osaka’s adjustment to stardom misstated when Belinda Bencic beat Ms. Osaka in straight sets at the Hopman Cup. It was in December 2018, not January 2019.•An article on Friday about a ban on drugs and whips on racing days at Santa Anita Park misstated the period during which 22 horses died. The first of the horse deaths occurred on Dec. 26, not six weeks before the publication of the article.ARTS & LEISUREAn article on Page 14 about the actress and comedian Amy Schumer refers imprecisely to the video Ms. Schumer made about Beyoncé’s “Lemonade.” It was a tribute, not a spoof.ARTSA book review on Thursday about “The Trial of Lizzie Borden” misstated the title of a true-crime documentary. It is “Making a Murderer,” not “How to Make a Murderer.”•An article on Friday about Roz Chast and Patricia Marx misstated the title and publication date of their new book. It is “Why Don’t You Write My Eulogy Now So I Can Correct It? A Mother’s Suggestions” with a release date of April 2, not “Why Don’t You Write My Eulogy So I Can Correct It? A Mother’s Suggestions” with a release date of April 1.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement