AdvertisementSupported byThe ordeal of death-row inmate Curtis Flowers will yet again test the court’s commitment to equal justice under law.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Two years ago, the Supreme Court reaffirmed that there existed a constitutional “imperative to purge racial prejudice from the administration of justice.” In the case of the Mississippi death-row prisoner Curtis Flowers, which the justices heard on Wednesday, the court is once again poised to send a message that racism has no place in the courtroom — this time in the area of jury selection, which remains an especially urgent issue in capital cases.Mr. Flowers has faced trial an astonishing six times for the 1996 murder of four people at a furniture store in Winona, Miss. — a crime that he has said all along he did not commit. At question in Flowers v. Mississippi is whether District Attorney Doug Evans, who tried Mr. Flowers all those times, unconstitutionally excluded a number of blacks from serving as jurors at the sixth trial. (Mr. Flowers is black.)With all-white or nearly all-white juries that Mr. Evans helped put together, each of Mr. Flowers’s first three trials resulted in guilty verdicts and death sentences. Those convictions were later reversed by the Mississippi Supreme Court on the basis of repeated instances of prosecutorial mischief. Mr. Flowers’s fourth and fifth trials resulted in mistrials because the jurors, some of whom were black, could not agree on a guilty verdict. And the sixth trial — the one the Supreme Court examined on Wednesday — resulted in Mr. Flowers’s conviction, again with a nearly all-white jury.The oral arguments in Mr. Flowers’s case attracted wide notice because Justice Clarence Thomas, who hasn’t asked a question from the Supreme Court bench in three years, broke his silence toward the end of Wednesday’s hearing. He wanted to know from Mr. Flowers’s attorney whether the public defender who represented Mr. Flowers at his sixth trial had struck any jurors on the basis of race.It turns out that Mr. Flowers’s defense team struck three jurors, all of them white, according to Mr. Flowers’s lawyer.But Justice Thomas’s line of inquiry misses that the real outrage of Mr. Flowers’s many trials, which the podcast “In the Dark” has chronicled in painstaking detail, is the clear racism that has visited the jury selection process from the start.As versions of the case made their way through the Mississippi court system, judges and appellate courts took notice of Mr. Evans’s disregard for Batson v. Kentucky, the 1986 decision that said that prosecutors cannot use peremptory challenges to dismiss prospective jurors on the basis of race. When Mississippi’s highest court reversed Mr. Flowers’s third conviction, the judges chastised Mr. Evans for what they deemed “as strong a prima facie case of racial discrimination as we have ever seen in the context of a Batson challenge.”But Mr. Evans didn’t seem to learn his lesson. He kept targeting his peremptory challenges at black prospective jurors almost exclusively and with near-surgical finesse. At the last Flowers trial, he allowed just one black citizen on the jury; he peppered the other five black people being considered with probing, race-neutral questions, only to later strike them from the jury.The justices on Wednesday appeared ready to chastise Mr. Evans yet again. “The history of the case prior to this trial is very troubling,” said Justice Samuel Alito, adding that Mr. Evans’s record in the case “is cause for concern and is certainly relevant to the decision that ultimately has to be made in the case.”There’s little chance that the Supreme Court will do away with or put greater limits on the use of peremptory challenges — a radical solution not presented in Mr. Flowers’s case but one has been advanced by the likes of Justice Thurgood Marshall and legal scholars who have studied the abuse of the practice.But, as Justice Brett Kavanaugh acknowledged on Wednesday, the court could once again uphold the principle that equality in the realm of jury selection is “not just for the fairness to the defendant and to the juror, but that the community has confidence in the fairness of the system.” That would be a worthy outcome — and may, at long last, give Mr. Flowers the fair trial he deserves.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement