AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life.”More details and stories of heroism are emerging from the terrorist attack that left 50 people dead at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand. Abdul Aziz was in one of the mosques when he heard gunshots. Rather than turning from the sound, he ran toward it in an effort to distract the attacker.Some at the mosques had come from places scarred by war, while others had grown up in Christchurch. But worshipers of all kinds came together to seek answers at the hospital, where the fate of loved ones was still unknown. Above, a vigil outside the Botanic Gardens in Christchurch.Within hours of the attacks, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern promised gun control reform. But the issue could be divisive in New Zealand, where an extraordinary number of people own weapons, with few restrictions.A 28-year-old man has been arrested in connection with the attacks and charged with murder. Here’s what we know about him.____2. Boeing said its pilots didn’t need training for its new 737 Max 8 jet. Now, the issue is whether it left pilots unprepared.The company, rushing to get its 737 Max in the air, and the Federal Aviation Administration argued that it was just an updated version of an earlier model and that no additional training was needed. They didn’t change the rules after the Lion Air crash, which also involved a Max 8, in October.Although the investigations are continuing, preliminary evidence and flight data suggest potential similarities, raising questions about the training and new software. Above, grounded Max 8 jets at Tulsa International Airport in Oklahoma.Earlier this week, we reported on the final minutes of the plane that crashed in Ethiopia. The captain, who had 8,000 hours of experience, requested in a panicky voice to return just minutes after takeoff.____3. In other international news:Our reporting revealed that President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela used Cuban doctors to coerce voters. The doctors went door-to-door to warn the ill and elderly that care would be cut off if they did not vote for the governing party. Above, Venezuelan doctors protesting against job insecurity and a lack of medical supplies in 2015.And in Britain, lawmakers dealt Brexit another setback, voting against Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan this week for the second time. They also voted to delay the departure past the original March 29 deadline.European Union leaders will meet this week, and would have to unanimously approve an extension request. The anger, and exasperation, writes our reporter, is palpable.____4. And in news from Washington:Congress may have reached a breaking point this week, judging from the several bipartisan rebukes it issued to the president. Among them: voting to end military aid to Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen; ordering the public release of the special counsel’s report; and blocking Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency, which he vetoed, above.And now, in response to that veto, some lawmakers want to fix the act the president invoked, which Congress itself enacted in 1976 in order to rein in presidential power.Separately, we took a look at the woman who runs a company that promises Chinese businesspeople access to American politicians, including the president. She previously owned the massage parlor at the center of the arrest last month of Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots.____5. A college admissions scandal left schools around the country reeling, and showed the admissions system to be exploitable, arbitrary and broken. Above, Harvard University.In the days since the scandal broke, college consultants and admissions directors have found themselves in an awkward, sometimes defensive position. They have expressed shock at how the system was manipulated, while being acutely aware that the admissions process has spun out of control.You’ve heard of helicopter parents, who hover anxiously near their children and monitor their accomplishments. They were so 20th century. Now, snowplow parents clear all obstacles in their children’s paths to success.____6. Thousands of heart patients may no longer need open-heart surgery. A less invasive procedure mends a heart valve just as effectively, scientists said.Two large clinical trials found that most patients benefit from a transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and recover in days, rather than months. With TAVR, the only incision is a small hole in the groin where the catheter is inserted.Cardiologists say it will likely change the standard of care for most patients with failing aortic valves.“Is it important? Heck, yes,” one doctor said, adding that the findings “were remarkable.”____7. Recycling is facing a reckoning.With China no longer accepting used plastic and paper, American communities are facing steep collection bills, forcing them to end their programs or burn or bury more waste.Now, counterintuitively, the big winners in the recycling turmoil are the large recycling companies, which also operate landfills and haul trash. They increasingly control every aspect of the waste and recycling system. Above, a recycling truck in Sunrise, Fla.____8. Some undergraduates head to Daytona for spring break. Nathan Chen is heading to the World Figure Skating Championships.The Yale freshman and former Olympic bronze medalist is off to Japan to defend his world title. He’s also testing a theory: that being well rounded and pursuing a life off the ice might ultimately make him better at skating. Above, Mr. Chen trains by himself in Cromwell, Conn., near Yale.In other sports news: Today is Selection Sunday. Our basketball columnist looks at how the Rating Percentage Index, long the measuring stick for the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, which begins this week, gives way to a new metric: the NET.____9. Roz Chast and Patricia Marx want to tell you about their mothers.Ms. Chast, above right, a cartoonist for The New Yorker, and Ms. Marx, above left, a humorist and staff writer at that magazine, have been friends since the late 1970s and now have a collection of edicts from Ms. Marx’s mother titled, “Why Don’t You Write My Eulogy Now So I Can Correct it? A Mother’s Suggestions,” out April 2.Our reporter sat down with them, and their ukuleles, to talk about their two-woman band and their singular mothers.____10. Finally, it’s time to settle into our Weekend Reads.We have a profile of Amy Schumer and her new Netflix special; a look at Japan’s disappearing ice monsters, above; and an architecture review of Manhattan’s newest, biggest, slickest real estate venture (spoiler alert: Our critic was not a huge fan). And yes, Mercury is in retrograde, but don’t be alarmed.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, we suggest these seven new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.Have a soulful week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement