AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to decide whether Lee Malvo, the younger of the two men who terrorized the Washington region with sniper shootings in the fall of 2002, may challenge his sentences of life in prison without the possibility of parole.The court also agreed to hear constitutional challenges to state laws allowing non-unanimous juries and barring the insanity defense.Mr. Malvo, now 34, was 17 when he and John Allen Muhammad killed 10 people in sniper attacks in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia. Mr. Muhammad was sentenced to death, and he was executed in 2009.Mr. Malvo was sentenced to life in prison by judges in both Virginia and Maryland. He challenged his Virginia sentences under Supreme Court decisions that limited life sentences for juvenile offenders.The central legal issues in the case the Supreme Court agreed to hear, Mathena v. Malvo, No. 18-217, was whether Mr. Malvo had been sentenced under a law that made a life sentence mandatory and whether the Supreme Court decisions applied retroactively to Mr. Malvo.In June, a unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals, in Richmond, Va., ruled that Mr. Malvo was entitled to new sentencing hearings.“To be clear,” Judge Paul V. Niemeyer wrote for the panel, “the crimes committed by Malvo and John Muhammad were the most heinous, random acts of premeditated violence conceivable, destroying lives and families and terrorizing the entire Washington, D.C., metropolitan area for over six weeks, instilling mortal fear daily in the citizens of that community.”“But Malvo was 17 years old when he committed the murders, and he now has the retroactive benefit of new constitutional rules that treat juveniles differently for sentencing,” Judge Niemeyer wrote.“We make this ruling not with any satisfaction but to sustain the law,” the judge concluded. “As for Malvo, who knows but God how he will bear the future.”Virginia officials asked the Supreme Court to review that ruling, noting that the state’s Supreme Court had come to the opposite conclusion on the legal question in the case.The United States Supreme Court also agreed to decide whether the Constitution allows non-unanimous verdicts in criminal cases.The case, Ramos v. Louisiana, No. 18-5924, concerns Evangelisto Ramos, a Louisiana man who was convicted in 2016 for killing a woman in New Orleans. The jury’s vote was 10 to 2, which was enough under the state’s law at the time. Louisiana has since amended its state Constitution to bar non-unanimous verdicts, but the move came too late to help Mr. Ramos.Oregon is the last remaining state that allows non-unanimous verdicts in criminal cases.In a pair of decisions in 1972, one each from Oregon and Louisiana, the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution does not require states to insist on unanimity. Critics say the decisions ignored the historical record and made assumptions about jury behavior that have been called into question by more recent research.The court also agreed to decide whether states may abolish the dominant version of the insanity defense. The case concerns James Kahler, who was sentenced to death for killing four family members. His lawyers said he suffered “from depression so severe that he experienced extreme emotional disturbance, dissociating him from reality.”“Although he knew that he was shooting human beings,” Mr. Kahler’s lawyers said of their client, “his mental state was so disturbed at the time that he was unable to control his actions.”Kansas is one of five states in which defendants cannot avoid criminal punishment by showing that their mental illness prevented them from knowing their actions were wrong. In their petition seeking review in the case, Kahler v. Kansas, No. 18-6135, lawyers for Mr. Kahler wrote that the state’s approach “defies a fundamental, centuries-old precept of our legal system: People cannot be punished for crimes for which they are not morally culpable.”The Kansas law, they wrote, violates the Eighth Amendment’s prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment and the Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee of due process.Lawyers for Kansas responded that the state had refined but not eliminated the insanity defense, allowing defendants to argue instead that “as a result of mental disease” they “lacked the mental state required” to be convicted.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter @adamliptak.Advertisement