AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesSocial media companies have been working to remove video of the New Zealand mosque attacks, which were livestreamed by the assailant. But the footage has emerged in a different place in recent days: the election rallies of Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.At a televised rally in Antalya, in southern Turkey, on Sunday — and twice the day before — Mr. Erdogan used an edited version of the video to galvanize support among his Islamist followers ahead of local elections at the end of the month and criticize the Turkish opposition as weak.The attacker, identified as Brenton Tarrant, a 28-year-old Australian, posted a lengthy manifesto before the attacks that said, among other things, that Muslims should be driven out of the part of Turkey that lies west of the Bosporus.The president played fragments of the video — with blurred images of the attack — at several election rallies and paired them with statements by a Turkish opposition leader to equate his opponent with a notorious Australian senator, Fraser Anning, who blamed Muslim immigration for the attacks.“We have lived through something in New Zealand, haven’t we?” he said. “A poor imitation of a politician there said something. What did he say? He holds Islam responsible for terror,” Mr. Erdogan said as he presented the video, criticizing Mr. Anning.Winston Peters, New Zealand’s foreign affairs minister, said he had spoken to Turkish officials on Sunday, expressing alarm at the use of the video.Mr. Peters said he had told Turkey’s vice president and foreign minister that “anything of that nature that misrepresents this country, given that this was a non-New Zealand citizen, imperils the future and safety of New Zealand’s people and our people abroad. And it’s totally unfair.”On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content.But Mr. Erdogan, who is campaigning for his Justice and Development Party at daily rallies, has used the attacks to stir up popular feeling. On Friday, he said that he had spoken to one of the three Turkish citizens injured in the Christchurch attack and cursed the perpetrator in stirring language. He called Mr. Tarrant a vile murderer and said he had threatened violence in his manifesto specifically against Turkey, its population and its leader.“Together with all Muslims, our country, our nation and myself are targeted,” Mr. Erdogan said at a rally in the southern city of Gaziantep. “What does it say? That we shouldn’t go west of the Bosporus, meaning Europe. Otherwise, he would come to Istanbul, kill us all, drives us out of our land.”Turks are heading to the polls on March 31 for municipal elections. Nine months ago, they not only re-elected Mr. Erdogan as president but also approved constitutional changes that granted him new powers, changing the country’s parliamentary system into a presidential one.Although Mr. Erdogan remains popular, he is feeling the pressure of a recessionary economy and a currency collapse that have cut into Turks’ living standards. Still, Turkey’s overall economic success story has provided a strong underpinning for Mr. Erdogan throughout his 17-year rule as prime minister and now president.Advertisement