AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael M. GrynbaumJeanine Pirro is off Fox News prime time — and President Trump is not thrilled about it.Fox News removed Ms. Pirro’s program, “Justice With Judge Jeanine,” from its usual 9 p.m. time slot on Saturday, one week after the network took the rare step of publicly rebuking the host for an on-air monologue that questioned a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the United States.Ms. Pirro has been formally suspended by the network because of her remarks, according to a person told of the decision who requested anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.In a statement, Fox News declined to address the host’s status. “We are not commenting on internal scheduling matters,” the network said.At least one regular viewer of Ms. Pirro seemed to notice. Mr. Trump, posting on Twitter on Sunday morning, urged the network to “bring back @JudgeJeanine Pirro.”In what amounted to a presidential pep talk, Mr. Trump seemed to directly address his favorite television station, which has faced criticism in recent days over comments by Ms. Pirro and another star host, the pundit Tucker Carlson.“Fox must stay strong and fight back with vigor,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country. The losers all want what you have, don’t give it to them.”The president prodded Fox News to adopt the always-attack ethos of his mentor, the late lawyer Roy Cohn. “Be strong & prosper, be weak & die!” Mr. Trump wrote. “Stay true to the people that got you there. Keep fighting for Tucker, and fight hard for @JudgeJeanine.”The president has been friendly for years with Ms. Pirro, whose ex-husband, Al Pirro, served as Mr. Trump’s Westchester County power broker in the 1990s before going to prison for conspiracy and tax evasion. Ms. Pirro, whose television career had stagnated, has watched her ratings rise as she became one of Mr. Trump’s most fervent on-air defenders.But even Fox News, which has mostly stood by star personalities in past scandals, flinched last week after Ms. Pirro’s on-air remarks about Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, a Muslim who wears a hijab. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Shariah law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?” Ms. Pirro asked on her March 9 program.Among those calling her comments prejudiced was a Muslim producer at Ms. Pirro’s own network. Several advertisers said they would no longer sponsor her show.The network said Ms. Pirro’s remarks “do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly,” though officials there have not elaborated on that discussion or what internal punishment, if any, was meted out.Mr. Carlson has also faced scrutiny for offensive comments he made on a shock-jock radio program about a decade ago, which were recently published by the left-wing advocacy group Media Matters for America. Appearing on the “Bubba the Love Sponge” show, Mr. Carlson described Iraqis as “semiliterate primitive monkeys” and mused that “arranging a marriage between a 16-year-old and a 27-year-old is not the same as pulling a stranger off the street and raping her.”Fox News has not issued its own statement on the Carlson matter. Mr. Carlson did not miss any of his regular network appearances this past week. On air, he thanked officials at Fox News for backing him, and portrayed himself as a target of a liberal “mob” intent on silencing conservative voices.On Sunday, Mr. Trump seemed to channel Mr. Carlson’s words. “The Radical Left Democrats, working closely with their beloved partner, the Fake News Media, is using every trick in the book to SILENCE a majority of our Country,” the president wrote on Twitter. “They have all out campaigns against @FoxNews hosts who are doing too well.”Mr. Trump also took aim at the NBC comedy show “Saturday Night Live,” complaining again about its satirical portrayal of him.Not for the first time, the president mused about using the power of the federal government to crack down on television programs that make fun of him — the kind of threat usually wielded by autocrats in countries where there is no independent media.“Should Federal Election Commission and/or FCC look into this?” Mr. Trump wrote. “There must be Collusion with the Democrats, and, of course, Russia!”Ms. Pirro, for her part, has been silent on social media since the criticism began over her remarks. She has not apologized. “My intention was to ask a question and start a debate, but of course because one is Muslim does not mean you don’t support the Constitution,” she said in a statement last weekend.Last week, Ms. Omar — who was recently criticized for comments in Congress that some lawmakers viewed as anti-Semitic — thanked Fox News after the network distanced itself from Ms. Pirro’s remarks. “No one’s commitment to our constitution should be questioned because of their faith or country of birth,” she wrote on Twitter.Viewers who tuned in to watch Ms. Pirro on Saturday night instead saw a rerun of Fox News’s documentary-style show, “Scandalous,” a series that usually focuses on the travails of prominent Democratic politicians and their relatives. The episode that ran on Saturday was about the 1991 rape trial of William Kennedy Smith, a nephew of President John F. Kennedy.Advertisement