AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Sabaa TahirTHE WOMEN’S WAR By Jenna GlassWhile feminist science fiction and fantasy books have been around for decades — see Octavia Butler, Ursula K. Le Guin and Anne McCaffrey — tales that reflect recent feminist movements like #MeToo are an essential next step in an ongoing conversation. That’s what makes “The Women’s War,” by Jenna Glass, so noteworthy.The story is set in Seven Wells, an analog for medieval Europe — wimples, kinglets and all. Each of the wells in question produces magical elements around which small nation-states have sprung up. Women can make small potions with the magic, but greater engagement is frowned upon, and the elements bend primarily to the will of men. In Seven Wells and beyond, the men are the power brokers, and the women are the pawns.Alysoon Rai-Brynna, living in Aalwell, is a widowed 42-year-old princess whose own mother, Brynna, was set aside by the king. Such “tainted” women are sent to the Abbey of the Unwanted, where they harness limited magic and work as prostitutes. Frustrated by the status quo, Brynna unleashes a spell that alters the magic of Seven Wells by granting women the power to decide whether or not to become pregnant. “This is women’s magic, and it is subtle,” Brynna writes to her daughter. “The spell will know the difference between true free will and coercion.” In an unanticipated side effect, the spell gives rape survivors access to an element called Kai, which gives them great strength. The effects of the enchantment are felt across the land, including in Zinolm’s Well, where Queen Ellinsoltah is desperately attempting to hold onto the throne as older, more experienced men scheme to wrest it from her.Glass could easily have allowed the spell and subsequent upheaval to transform the plot into a revenge fantasy. But her approach is a more measured examination of societal change. The women in Seven Wells have been oppressed for so long that they do not know how to use their newfound power. As Alysoon’s daughter says, “Few men want to marry a woman who won’t give them children, and few women will give a man children when they are forced into the marriage.” What happens when marriages crumble, when the Abbey is razed, when the very fabric of life is altered? How do people who have never controlled their own fates do so effectively?[ Feminist dystopian fiction is beginning to channel women’s anger and anxiety. ]In answering this question, Glass puts character development over world-building, though she demonstrates skill with both. The multiple points of view transition seamlessly, revealing an astute understanding of human nature — the fear and quiet rage of a widowed mother of two; the insecurity and passion of a young queen. Some of the men, too, are presented as complicated and layered, a blunt reminder that an ally is a powerful asset when a marginalized person is facing off against institutionalized powers.The primary exception to this is Delnamal, Alysoon’s half brother and heir to the throne of Aalwell. Delnamal is small-minded, petty and cruel. Such people exist, of course, but one would hope their inclusion in a book would have an overarching purpose. Some of Delnamal’s sections — like a graphic group rape scene — can be difficult to get through. In a novel that explores and validates the importance of female agency, to present a violation like this through the eyes of a misogynistic male character feels like a misstep.Another is the dearth of intersectionality. For a book that unpacks birth control, body autonomy, feminism and the mind-set of the oppressed, the lack of any lesbian characters was a touch baffling.Glass is at her strongest when she takes us deep into the minds of her characters. “The Women’s War” does what so many classic adult fantasy books do not: It gives us a nuanced portrayal of grown women dealing with a wretchedly unfair society. It is rare to read a fantasy novel with a middle-aged mother as a main character. And it is refreshing to see women becoming heroes in a world that wishes to keep them muzzled.Sabaa Tahir’s most recent novel is “A Reaper at the Gates.”THE WOMEN’S WAR By Jenna Glass 546 pp. Del Rey. $28.Advertisement