AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement