AdvertisementSupported byDeans don’t want call-out culture either — they just can’t say so out loud.By Mark BauerleinMr. Bauerlein is an English professor at Emory and a senior editor at First Things.College presidents don’t want President Trump stepping into campus affairs and making threatening orders about speech — or so they say. After the president previewed an executive order on campus speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference this month, Robert Zimmer, president of the University of Chicago, warned that it would make the government, “with all its power and authority, a party to defining the very nature of discussion on campus,” and lead to the “inevitable establishment of a bureaucracy to enforce any governmental position.”The order itself, which the president signed on Thursday, has softer language, stating that federal officials shall “ensure institutions that receive federal research or education grants promote free inquiry, including through compliance with all applicable federal laws, regulations and policies.” President Trump’s remarks at the signing ceremony, however, were harsher. He called universities “anti-First Amendment institutions”; he denounced “ideological intolerance”; and he stated that the $35 billion per year that schools receive in research funding “is now at stake.” The case would seem a perfect occasion for school leaders to rebuke a politician whom they despise, and do so on principled apolitical grounds. Even a conservative should object to this federal intrusion into academic affairs.But consider the actual pressures and burdens on the president of a research university that takes in grants by the millions every year. The college presidents won’t say so, but in light of their daily duties, this “speech” aspect of the executive order may look to them like a godsend.The order originates in specific incidents: a student harassed by school officials for her anti-abortion messaging, the creation of illiberal speech codes, and the shout-downs that conservative speakers like Heather Mac Donald and Charles Murray have endured during their campus visits. College leaders aren’t happy with this. They prefer that a student manning a table for the group Turning Point USA be left alone, and that Ben Shapiro have his say on Wednesday and leave on Thursday. They favor free speech even as they openly disagree with the conservative’s opinions.But that’s not enough for some students, who object to the very presence of an outspoken conservative on campus. They have forced administrators to draw a line on impermissible speech that the administrators don’t wish to draw. Administrators want open inquiry and lively debate, but the students often have a historically disadvantaged identity that the college leaders feel they must respect — African-Americans against racism, women against rape culture.This is a dilemma that outsiders don’t appreciate. They see 19-year-olds chanting “No more racism!” while everyone else in the lecture hall, including the conservative speaker and the security guards, stand in silence, and they wonder why nobody makes them stop. Conservative critics put it up to liberal bias, but that’s not really the problem. It has to do with the relationship the administration has formed with undergraduates from the beginning, especially with those from underrepresented populations.Selective schools are in a fierce competition to attract applicants and build a properly diverse and elite freshman class. They have recruited these students with glowing promises and triumphant predictions: “You will prosper here — this is the very best place you can be!” the brochures tell them. Recruiters phone and text underserved groups with exciting accounts of graduates’ success. Students arrive full of hope and happiness. The last thing deans want is for these youths to become upset and angry. It brings bad publicity and makes the campus look like a place of turmoil, not joy. These students intimidate the highest officials in a university more than outsiders can imagine. A student at Yale yelling at the professor who tried to reason with her did tremendous damage to Yale’s brand, but the administration couldn’t come down on her without compromising its pledges of inclusivity and anti-discrimination and sensitivity.This is why, even if they won’t say it publicly, many university administrators most likely welcome the federal government’s heavy hand. President Trump has taken the burden of free speech off their shoulders. Administrators now must stop the illiberalism of the activists as a matter of federal policy. That means canceling speech codes and punishing disrupters. Schools can’t lose federal funding; they need it to function. Now, they have an answer to the students crowding their offices and storming the lecture hall: “Yes, you must be quiet or you will be disciplined. I have no choice — it’s the law.”Mark Bauerlein is an English professor at Emory and a senior editor at First Things.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement