AdvertisementSupported byFifty years ago, a group of women stood up in a church and talked about ending their pregnancies. The way they did so still shapes how we discuss the topic today.By Nona Willis AronowitzMs. Willis Aronowitz is a writer and editor.You couldn’t just casually threaten suicide — you had to sound like you meant it, the woman onstage recalled. “You have to go and bring a razor, or whatever: ‘If you don’t tell me I’m going to have an abortion right now, I’m going to go out and jump off the Verrazzano Bridge.’” The woman was speaking in 1969. Legalized abortion nationwide was still four years away; in New York, so-called therapeutic abortions were legal — but only if a doctor judged you mentally unfit to have a child. And so, the woman explained, she ended up seeing two psychiatrists who, to her relief, deemed her suicide threats real enough to be granted the procedure. The crowd clapped and roared at the absurdity of it all, until the woman explained that after her abortion, she was stuck in the maternity ward to recover — right next to crying babies. The crowd wasn’t laughing anymore.The speaker was one of 12 women who talked about their abortions in front of 300 people at Washington Square Methodist Church on March 21, 1969, 50 years ago. The abortion speak-out — organized by the socialist-feminist group Redstockings — was, according to historians, very likely the first public forum where American women talked about ending their pregnancies. They did so in a raucous, emotionally charged gathering whose legacy looms over the abortion debate today: We still employ personal, sometimes painful stories to demystify abortion. It’s still not enough to simply invoke the right to control one’s own body.Listening to the thick New York accents and ebullient cheering, you could almost mistake some of the testimony for an episode of “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel.” Yet the political intentions of the speak-out were serious. At the time, women didn’t talk about their abortions, certainly not in public. But a wave of consciousness-raising groups in the years preceding had allowed women to share details of their sexual and reproductive lives, which they had deemed central to their oppression. The speak-out seemed a logical next step: a way to recognize that the pain and humiliation of trying to get an abortion was a social problem, not a personal one.[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.]It was also a response to a New York State legislative committee hearing on abortion the month before, whose “experts” had consisted of 14 men and a nun. Redstockings stormed the hearing, demanding that the panel hear from the “real experts — the women.”At the speak-out, these experts told stories about times when a legal abortion wasn’t possible, when they put their lives in the hands of quacks as a result. “Without anesthetic it’s the most scary thing in the world,” one woman in the audience said. “You’re on the table and you feel the scraping and scraping.” Another woman had to go to 11 hospitals before she could get an abortion; the 10th had threatened to sterilize her.Susan Brownmiller, who covered the event for The Village Voice, called this kind of testimony “the politics of confrontation and catharsis,” a phrase that perfectly embodies the personal/political tension in the abortion debate. Confrontation is for them: Push aside your emotion and embarrassment and tell your story unflinchingly. Your abortion is part of larger societal dynamics, and no woman should feel alone because she’s had one. Catharsis is for you: An abortion is deeply private, unique, often confusing or nuanced or heartbreaking — in short, the antithesis of sweeping political statements.Decades later, confrontation-catharsis remains one of the most effective ways to fight against injustice, especially in the realm of abortion. The momentum for the Reproductive Health Act, new legislation passed this year that expanded New York’s abortion laws, began with Erika Christensen, who told the story of her late-term abortion in Jezebel. Politicians like the former Texas candidate for governor Wendy Davis and Representative Jackie Speier of California have told stories of their own abortions. The Shout Your Abortion movement has encouraged women to bring it out of the shadows. When President Trump recently described late-term abortions as akin to a baby being “ripped from the mother’s womb moments from birth,” women and doctors tweeted stories of unimaginable agony in order to prove him wrong.And yet confrontation-catharsis politics aren’t cut-and-dried. When it comes to issues of sexuality — whether it’s abortion, rape, gay marriage or trans rights — they require talking about private, sometimes traumatic experiences in public, which can be galling: Why should I have to rip my heart out in order to make a political point?They also require us to walk a tightrope: to be honest and authentic, but not too emotional, lest your story be dismissed as purely confessional. (Back in 1969, consciousness-raising groups were beating back the condescending assumption that their discussions were just “group therapy.”) Social media makes this even more complicated, because nobody wants to be accused of seeking attention with a sob story — but insufficient sobbing can attract ire.When, in January, I tweeted about how my own abortion made me angry about the “heartbeat” bills being floated — and passed — in state legislatures, I felt acutely aware of this delicate negotiation. I reasoned that a matter-of-fact approach was the best way to make my political point. “So, I had an abortion the other day,” I tweeted. I didn’t mention that it was some of the worst pain of my life, or that I was violently sick afterward, or that it provoked complicated feelings, even though I didn’t regret it.Many abortion-rights supporters appreciated my normalizing tone; opponents of abortion were horrified by my lack of emotion, calling me a “sociopath.” Still others took the stance many take when it comes to gay people kissing in public: “Do what you want in private, but do you have to shove it in my face?” It appears, 50 years after the Redstockings speak-out, that women still can’t win when it comes to sharing their personal lives.Or maybe, eventually, they can. Being open about abortion in the short term helps depoliticize it in the long term, and, paradoxically, allows it to be treated like the private medical procedure it is. So even if its very mention provokes shame and vitriol from both sides, it ultimately doesn’t matter how we talk about abortion. The point is that we do. And if there’s emotion, so be it: There’s a reason behind every tear. Legislators say, “Oh, yes, it’s a sad story,” one woman explained in that church a half-century ago. “They neglect to see that it is they who are making this sad story.”Nona Willis Aronowitz is a writer and editor.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement