AdvertisementSupported byBy Choe Sang-HunSEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Sunday that a break-in and robbery at its embassy in Spain last month was “a grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law,” calling on Madrid to conduct a thorough and fair investigation of the mysterious incident.North Korea was also closely monitoring reports that the F.B.I. and an anti-North Korea group had been involved, a spokesman for its Foreign Ministry told the official Korean Central News Agency.The unidentified spokesman’s comments were the first official North Korean reaction to the Feb. 22 raid.“This kind of act should never be tolerated over the globe,” he said, adding that during the assault on the embassy, an armed group had “bound, beaten and tortured” staff members and stolen communications equipment.North Korea expects the Spanish authorities to “bring the terrorists and their wire pullers to justice in conformity with the relevant international law,” he said.The raid at the North Korean Embassy took place five days before the start of President Trump’s summit meeting in Vietnam with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.Ten suspects attacked embassy employees with knives, machetes, metal bars and fake pellet guns, a Spanish judge investigating the case said last week. After holding the employees hostage for several hours, the assailants fled with a cellphone, two pen drives, and two computers and two hard drives that probably contained security footage, the judge reported.The judge identified the leader of the gang as Adrian Hong Chang, who he said was a Mexican man who lives in the United States. Mr. Hong Chang escaped to the United States and got in touch with the F.B.I., offering to share “audiovisual material” obtained during the embassy attack, the judge said.An international arrest warrant has also been issued for an American identified as Sam Ruy.A mysterious organization that describes itself as a dissident group dedicated to toppling Mr. Kim’s regime in Pyongyang has since claimed responsibility. The group, known as Cheollima Civil Defense, or Free Joseon, said on its website that its action at the embassy had not been “an attack,” that no one had been beaten and that no weapons had been used.The group “shared certain information of enormous potential value with the F.B.I. in the United States, under mutually agreed terms of confidentiality,” it said. “This information was shared voluntarily and on their request, not our own. Those terms appear to have been broken.”On Thursday, the group said it had been forced to temporarily suspend its operations because of speculative media reports.The F.B.I. has declined to comment on the case. The State Department in Washington said the United States government had nothing to do with the raid and reiterated that diplomatic missions “ought to be respected and are protected by treaty.”Lee Wolosky, a lawyer representing the group, said its representatives had been invited into the embassy. “There was no ‘terrorist attack’ — a claim which is itself the propaganda of a designated state sponsor of terrorism,” he said. “In due course, Free Joseon expects to be able to provide to relevant authorities additional evidence concerning what happened in Madrid.”Charlie Savage contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement