AdvertisementSupported byBy Melina Delkic and Virginia LozanoHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. The long-awaited report from Robert Mueller, the special counsel, landed. And in many ways, it was just the beginning.Federal and state prosecutors were pursuing about a dozen other investigations that largely grew out of Mr. Mueller’s work.A constitutional battle was brewing, as Democrats swiftly demanded the release of the full report and any underlying documents.Attorney General William Barr may release the report’s principal conclusions to Congress as soon as this weekend. He is expected to take longer to review the broader report for any classified information. Above, various newspaper front pages announcing the report outside the Newseum in Washington.If you still have questions, we have guides to what we know, who was involved and what’s next to keep you covered.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Boeing was “go, go, go” to beat a competitor, Airbus, with its 737 Max 8 jet.To clinch a deal with American Airlines, the company needed to update its workhorse 737 in six years. The competitive pressure to build the jet now threatens the reputation and profits of Boeing, after two deadly crashes of the 737 Max in less than five months.The pace of the work on the 737 Max was frenetic, according to current and former employees who spoke with The Times. Prosecutors are investigating whether Boeing rushed, missed crucial safety risks and underplayed the need for pilot training. Above, the Boeing plant in Renton, Wash.And this week, we learned that grief for some families of the Indonesia flight crash victims has been exacerbated by an effort to pressure them to renounce all rights to sue in exchange for compensation.____3. The Islamic State’s last territory in Syria fell to U.S.-backed forces, ending a four-year battle and toppling a rogue state that was once the size of Britain.The loss of Baghuz, the last remnant of the biggest territory the Islamic State controlled, is a blow. At its zenith, the group controlled the lives of up to 12 million people. It became the world’s richest terrorist organization, raking in billions. Above, men who fled the last area of ISIS control waiting to be questioned about their links to the group by coalition forces.But the terrorist group remains a serious, violent threat. It commands thousands of followers from Afghanistan to the Philippines.____4. In other international news:New Zealand banned assault rifles, six days after a mass shooting in Christchurch left 50 people dead. The country also banned the alleged gunman’s manifesto, making it a crime to possess or distribute it. Meanwhile, vigils are being held across the country, like the one above, in Christchurch.The European Union approved a Brexit extension, giving Prime Minister Theresa May and Parliament more time to get their act together. Many Britons were not pleased. Thousands marched against Brexit in London on Saturday afternoon. Read more about how we got here and where we go from here.In Mozambique and nearby countries, a cyclone affected more than 1.5 million people. Hundreds of people were killed, and the death toll is rising. Learn how you can help.And Italy defied allies and became the first of the Group of 7 nations to sign on to China’s “One Belt, One Road” expansion project.____5. In Washington this week:President Trump overruled his own national security experts and announced a rollback of sanctions on North Korea. Meanwhile, North Korea escalated an attempt to create a rift between South Korea and the U.S. Above, Pyongyang, North Korea.Separately, days after the president declared that Israel should have sovereignty over the long disputed Golan Heights, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee was preparing for its annual conference amid rising tensions.And the Federal Reserve downgraded its outlook for the U.S. economy, and signaled little appetite for raising interest rates. Just three months ago, investors were in a panic over the idea that the Fed might push borrowing costs too high.____6. This week, we reported that major flooding could impact 13 million people this spring.After Nebraska and other Midwestern states were already devasted by record-breaking winter floods, we could see a “potentially unprecedented” increase this spring, said Edward Clark, director of NOAA’s National Water Center. Above, flooding in Hamburg, Iowa.Is climate change the cause?It’s complicated. Each flood is its own phenomenon. But large amounts of rain can increase their likelihood, and heavier precipitation is an observed consequence of climate change.____7. It’s the first weekend of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.Wrapping up the week, the Blue Devils pulled away on Friday with a victory after a slow start, and their fellow No. 1 seeds Virginia and North Carolina did the same. Above, North Carolina vs. Iona.Duke’s Zion Williamson said that before he led Duke to a win, his teammates were in his ear, telling him to be himself. “It just gives you energy,” he said, “and I just try to bring energy for my team.”____8. Before the hacking of Sony Pictures and the Democratic National Committee, and before the first WikiLeak, there was Anthony Pellicano.Mr. Pellicano, above, a notorious private eye for the stars, spent 15 years in prison for illegal wiretapping and other crimes. He was released on Friday. In his career, he was known for using police tools like criminal background databases to help his clients, who paid him hundreds of thousands of dollars.He wiretapped actors like Sylvester Stallone, and did work on behalf of Chris Rock and Courtney Love. He once offered to have a producer murdered, and his body buried in the desert, according to testimony at his trial.____9. Once on the margins, older African-American artists are being embraced by the art world.We spoke to artists in their 70s and 80s who are enjoying a renaissance, with popular exhibitions in museums and works that sometimes garner millions at auctions. At an age when many artists begin to slow down, they must balance the pressures of success.“The kind of elation I may have had back 30 years, I’m past that point,” said Howardena Pindell, pictured above. “It’s a more a sense of feeling protected and safe in terms of the vicissitudes of the art world.”____10. Finally, we have our weekend reads.We wrote about snowplow parents who are getting in the way of their children’s success. We reviewed “Us,” where Jordan Peele, the director of “Get Out,” returned with a horror movie about a family terrorized by weird doubles. Above, the actress Lupita Nyong’o in a scene. And we profiled the PBS travel host Rick Steves, a gentle soul who wants to help you feel at home in the world.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, try one of 11 new books our editors liked, TV recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have an inspired week, and enjoy the first weekend of spring.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement