AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Winston[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A man has been taken into police custody in connection with a brutal attack on a 78-year-old woman on the subway in the Bronx this month, the police said on Saturday.The man, Marc Gomez, 36, of Yonkers, was arrested around 10:30 a.m. on Saturday in Lower Manhattan, the police said. Mr. Gomez was identified this week by an anonymous tip that said he often hung around areas of Lower Manhattan. Mr. Gomez was charged with felony assault.The attack, which took place around 3 a.m. on March 10, surfaced this week when a video of the assault was posted to the internet. The recording of the attack had received more than 10 million views as of Saturday afternoon.The video showed a tall man wearing jeans, glasses, a leather jacket and a knit cap forcefully kicking the woman at least six times as she sat on a northbound No. 2 train that was pulling into the Nereid Avenue station. Bystanders recorded the encounter and shouted but did not intervene.As the man made his way off the train, he turned to the passengers recording and said, “WorldStar that” — a reference to a popular website that often showcases clips of violent altercations.The woman was met by an ambulance at the next train station, and treated for swelling and cuts to the face, the police said.On Sunday, Alisa Cox, Mr. Gomez’s fiancée, said the woman repeatedly threatened her family, including her 11-year-old daughter, as they were traveling back to Yonkers after attending a birthday party.“It looks like he just went over there and starting kicking her for no apparent reason,” Ms. Cox, 44, said in an interview, adding, “I’ve known him since he was 16. He’s not a bad person.”Ms. Cox said Mr. Gomez, who works as a chef in a TriBeCa restaurant, immediately expressed remorse after he got off the train, admitting he let his temper get the best of him.Mr. Gomez has another open case in connection with an arrest from November. Officers arrested Mr. Gomez and a teenager after they found a loaded shotgun in a car the two were riding in on the Cross Bronx Expressway, the police said.Mr. Gomez was charged at the time with criminal possession of a loaded firearm, criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of a weapon after the police said they found a Mossberg shotgun in the car, a 2018 Mercedes with taxi license plates.While crime in the subway — and the city — is at lows not seen since the 1950s, violent encounters in the transit system posted to social media receive outsize attention. One such attack was the murder of 20-year-old Abel Mosso by alleged rival gang members on a Queens subway platform last month.As of March 17, there were 465 reported crimes in the transit system, down from 476 during the same period in 2018.Tyler Pager and Ashley Southall contributed reporting.Advertisement