AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. New Zealand investigates whether the massacre could have been avoided, a Dutch city is traumatized by a shooting days later, and Levi’s is continuing its comeback. Here’s the latest: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry into whether government agencies could have prevented the attacks at two mosques in Christchurch on Friday that left at least 50 dead. Her cabinet also agreed “in principle” to overhaul the country’s gun laws and will announce reforms “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism,” she said at a news conference.The victims: New Zealand’s deputy police commissioner said specialists had worked through the night to identify the people killed at the Al Noor and Linwood mosques. Islamic leaders and victims’ families have been discussing holding a burial for all of the victims, possibly on Wednesday.The suspect: Our reporter went to Dunedin, home to the suspected gunman, and spoke to people the suspect interacted with, including members of his rifle club.Perspective: Our Opinion section has essays examining traits that white-supremacist terrorists have in common and the history of white-supremacist violence. Attention turned to the city of Utrecht, where at least one gunman opened fire on a tram, killing three people and injuring five more.Officials arrested a suspect — a 37-year-old Turkish-born man — after an eight-hour manhunt, but it’s unclear whether he was the only person involved in the attack.The authorities said they were looking into the possibility the shooting was an act of terrorism, with the country’s counterterrorism agency raising its threat assessment to the highest level. They also ordered the evacuation of all mosques in the city, but it was unclear whether that move stemmed from a specific threat or as a precaution in the wake of the attack in New Zealand. The authorities didn’t rule out other motives, and some reports suggested that the attack was a result of a domestic dispute.Context: Utrecht, a city of 330,000, has a large immigrant population, with more than 30 percent of residents born outside the Netherlands. The attack took place in the Kanaleneiland neighborhood, which is home to a large number of Muslims, including immigrants from Morocco and Turkey. Mr. Trump and the German institution Deutsche Bank have had a long, symbiotic and at times troubled relationship. Now, as investigators in Washington and New York scrutinize their deals, we looked into that history. Those inquiries come at a perilous time for Deutsche Bank, which is negotiating to merge with Commerzbank.Deutsche Bank’s hunger for profits and risk led it to lend Mr. Trump more than $2 billion before he was president, despite pushback from some at the bank. Once he was elected, the bank went into damage-control mode, bracing for public scrutiny. It even told Wall Street employees not to utter the Trump name. Inside the bank: Deutsche Bank officials have quietly played down the relationship with Mr. Trump and said that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former executives and board members contradict that narrative. Read four takeaways from our reporting.On the year of the Prado’s bicentennial, our writer visited every gallery, vestibule and passageway to see whether he had missed anything on his previous 200 visits to the Madrid museum. He had.After 12,000 steps, he found that a gallery dedicated to stunning decorated objects, displayed next to their leather cases, “provided a fitting metaphor for the Prado itself: artistic perfection inside and out.”Where to start: There is no one designated route to follow through the museum, and visitors can expect to occasionally double back through galleries to move on.Highlights: See Hieronymus Bosch’s famous triptych “The Garden of Earthly Delights”; works by Diego Velázquez; more works by Titian, the godfather of Venetian painting, than in any other museum; more than 250 sculptures; and countless other delights. Canada: The country’s top public servant resigned. It was the fourth prominent resignation related to accusations that the Trudeau government improperly pressed the former attorney general to settle a corruption case involving a major corporation. Israel: A U.N. panel has urged the Israeli authorities to step up investigations into shootings of Palestinian demonstrators at the Gaza border last year, saying they may have constituted war crimes. Cyclone: An enormous storm that struck Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi, called Idai, has affected more than 1.5 million people, with a death toll now in the dozens and feared to be far higher.Afghanistan: Three months after the country’s soccer chief, Keramuddin Keram, was accused of sexually abusing members of the women’s national team, an investigation has stalled amid fears that it will never proceed.Midwest flooding: Record floods that have pummeled part of the U.S. are inflicting a devastating toll on farmers and ranchers when they can least afford it.Brexit: The speaker of the House of Commons has warned Prime Minister Theresa May that she cannot hold a third vote on her plan for the country’s departure from the E.U. unless the plan undergoes substantial alterations.Hungary: The country has effectively granted a Russian bank diplomatic immunity from any scrutiny by the police or financial regulators. Western security officials are concerned that Russian spies could use it as a base for intelligence operations.Spain: A bar in Madrid celebrating the dictator Gen. Francisco Franco and catering to the radical right is run by a Chinese man — an irony that has not gone unnoticed by patrons. “We used to joke to him,” one said. “If Franco was still alive, he would kill you.”Apple: The tech giant’s next big product isn’t a new device, but a billion-dollar-plus foray into streaming video. The company is expected to reveal details of the project next week.Levi’s: The popular jeans company is going public for the second time. After a period of stumbles and fluctuations in consumer tastes, the company that invented the blue jean is seeing a major comeback. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Sometimes only a hearty pasta dinner will do, like rigatoni with wilted greens, bacon and a fried egg.We all have rivals in our work lives. They’re our closest competitors — and they can be our greatest allies.Doctors answer questions about the benefits and drawbacks of retinols found in skin-care products.New Zealanders have lit candles, piled flowers and stood vigil since two mosques were attacked in Christchurch last week, resulting in the death of at least 50 people.They have also performed the haka.The ceremonial dance originated with the Maori, the country’s Indigenous Polynesian inhabitants. Warriors danced to intimidate opponents with grimaces, chanting and aggressive postures. But there are also hakas of welcome and hakas for funerals.The form has been embraced by New Zealanders of all origins, most famously by the national rugby team, the All Blacks. Many schools have haka groups, and every two years there is a national competition hosted by one of the country’s iwi, or tribes.A variety of haka forms have been performed for the Christchurch victims. For instance, a biker group, Black Power, used a warlike haka to express solidarity.Others performed one of the most famous hakas, “Ka mate,” a tribute to life in the face of death.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement