AdvertisementSupported byBy Christopher MeleThe former president of the University of Oklahoma, David L. Boren, is being investigated over allegations that he made unwanted sexual advances toward a student from 2010 through 2012, according to officials and a news report.The allegations against Mr. Boren, 77, who was once the state’s governor and a United States senator, surfaced in November, and the university sought the help of the Atlanta law firm Jones Day to investigate, a university spokeswoman said.Separately, the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation was asked on Thursday by the university police to help in the investigation of Mr. Boren and James Hall, a former vice president for development at the university, a bureau spokeswoman said on Friday.Mr. Boren could not be reached for comment on Friday night. His lawyer said he denied the allegations. Mr. Hall could not be reached on Friday night; he has denied any wrongdoing.The website NonDoc on Tuesday reported extensively on the allegations involving the student, Jess Eddy, who was in his early 20s at the time of the episodes.Mr. Eddy told the website he was subjected to harassment and unwanted sexual advances by Mr. Boren, who was then 69. The website also reported that Mr. Eddy said Mr. Hall engaged in one instance of inappropriate touching.One of the episodes with Mr. Boren happened during a trip to Houston in 2010 while Mr. Eddy and the university president had drinks in a hotel room after meeting with alumni and potential donors, Mr. Eddy told the website.The lawyer for Mr. Boren, Clark Brewster, said Friday that Mr. Eddy worked as a student assistant to the university president and also answered calls to a university complaint hotline. Mr. Boren advised Mr. Eddy when he sought guidance about entering politics and also wrote a letter on his behalf to a judge when Mr. Eddy faced vandalism charges, Mr. Brewster said. But he added that Mr. Boren did not have a close working relationship with the student.“He would know him but not very well,” Mr. Brewster said.In an interview with lawyers from Jones Day, Mr. Eddy said Mr. Boren had not engaged in any misbehavior, Mr. Brewster said, adding that when he learned about that interview, he asked Mr. Eddy to memorialize his comments in a letter, which he did in a letter dated March 14.The letter signed by Mr. Eddy and provided by Mr. Brewster on Friday night said: “This is in connection with information you shared with me regarding allegations that have been made against David Boren. To the extent that any of these allegations are attributed to me, I would like to make perfectly clear that they are not true.”Neither Jones Day nor Mr. Eddy could be reached on Friday night.Sara Bana, executive director of Civic Services Community Advocacy, an outreach and civil rights group in Oklahoma serving as a spokeswoman for Mr. Eddy, said he had been manipulated into writing the letter “in an moment of crisis.”Three days after the letter, Mr. Eddy called Mr. Boren and asked for compensation for his “pain and suffering,” a call that Mr. Eddy said he regretted because it could change the public perception of his account, the NonDoc website reported.Mr. Brewster said Mr. Boren paid no money to Mr. Eddy and said of the allegations, “This is the kind of thing that causes you to be gut sick.”Mr. Brewster said his client had “an exemplary public life.” Mr. Boren, who became university president in 1994 and retired last year, served as governor from 1974 to 1978 and was a United States senator from 1979 to 1994.Ms. Bana said Mr. Eddy had been “very transparent and truthful” about his call to Mr. Boren seeking money. “I understand that Mr. Brewster thinks he has something big, but it’s one piece of a very complex and long situation,” she said.For now, she said, supporters of Mr. Eddy were focused on creating a safe space to allow him to “cope and process.”There was no clear timetable for when Jones Day would conclude its investigation, a university spokeswoman said.Advertisement