AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — President Trump suggested on Wednesday that his administration had warned the Russian government to stay out of Venezuela after two Russian planes carrying military personnel arrived in Caracas this week, a move that places another significant obstacle in the White House’s slow-moving effort to oust President Nicolás Maduro.During an Oval Office meeting with Fabiana Rosales, the wife of Juan Guaidó, the Venezuelan National Assembly politician recognized by the Trump administration and 50 other countries as the rightful interim president, Mr. Trump said that Russia needed to see its way out of the conflict.“Russia has to get out. What’s your next question?” Mr. Trump told reporters.In recent weeks, Russia has offered to send food and medicine to the Maduro government as the country deals with hyperinflation, widespread blackouts and skyrocketing poverty. American-led aid shipments, staged in nearby countries including Colombia and Brazil, have had less success making it across the country’s borders.“They know,” Mr. Trump said when asked if he had conveyed to the Russians his feelings about their involvement in Venezuela. “They know very well.”After issuing new rounds of sanctions and revoking hundreds of visas in hopes of pressuring Mr. Maduro to leave office, the Trump administration already faced an uphill battle. But Mr. Maduro has shown little sign of leaving office, and in recent days his security officials arrested Roberto Marrero, Mr. Guaidó’s chief of staff, on terrorism charges. On Tuesday, the State Department issued another warning to the Maduro government in response to reports that Mr. Guaidó’s motorcade had come under assault by gangs loyal to Mr. Maduro.[Read more on Why Russia is helping Venezuela.]On top of this, Russia shows little sign of tamping down its involvement based on Mr. Trump’s warnings. The landing of two Russian planes this week was done in broad daylight, and carried supplies and technical advisers to the Venezuelan capital, according to Russian news reports.Maria Zakharova, a spokeswoman for Russia’s Foreign Ministry, accused the United States of trying to stage a “coup” in the country and argued that the presence of Russian personnel was protected by the Venezuelan Constitution.“We would like to remind U.S. politicians that they live in the 21st rather than 19th century,” Ms. Zakharova told reporters on Tuesday. “Venezuela is a sovereign state and a U.N. member. Its sovereignty is equal to Washington’s.”In the Oval Office on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said that his administration was still considering the possibility of military intervention — “all options are open,” he said when asked what would happen if Russia did not leave. Mr. Trump also publicly lamented that the situation in Venezuela only added to the international “mess” left to him by his predecessors.“Past administrations allowed this to happen,” Mr. Trump said as Ms. Rosales looked on. “I’ve inherited a mess, between North Korea and all of the problems we have all over the world.”Mr. Trump added, “But I’ll fix it.”Despite the Trump administration’s warnings, the only concrete option on the table appears to be more sanctions. Asked during congressional testimony on Wednesday whether the administration was ready to impose them, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo replied that it was.When pressed for more details, he said, “I prefer not to get out ahead of what we’re prepared to sanction.”Edward Wong contributed reporting.Advertisement