AdvertisementSupported byTHE DAILY NEWSLETTERThe recordings hidden in our colleagues’ phones.By Michael Barbaro[Want to get this by email? Here’s the sign-up.]On any given day, dozens of Times reporters venture into the world, conduct an interview for a story and record it — on their iPhone, a digital voice recorder or an old-fashioned tape recorder.They record it, above all, for fact-checking purposes, to ensure that every word they quote from an interview is accurate.But the fate of those recordings, after a story is published, is usually tragic: They sit unheard, as nameless files, waiting to be deleted with a swipe of the thumb.Then came “The Daily.” From the moment we created the show, we knew these recordings would be a treasure trove. An army of colleagues was already creating hours of memorable and exclusive audio. We just needed them to send it to us.And they did. In April 2017, two months after “The Daily” was launched, Maggie Haberman and Glenn Thrush interviewed a recently inaugurated President Trump in the Oval Office.The “Daily” producers working on the episode — Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills and Lisa Tobin — learned about the meeting only an hour beforehand.We knew Maggie and Glenn would record the interview. That was a given. So we emailed an urgent request: Please make sure the recorders are as close to the president as humanly possible. (We wanted high-quality audio, after all.) They complied, and early that afternoon, a 26-minute audio file arrived in our inbox.The result was a breakthrough episode in which listeners could hear our reporters peppering the president with questions and fact-checking his false claims in real time.That show created a model for us. We would build episodes around an original interview, conducted by a Times reporter, and combine it with a second interview — me interviewing the reporters who had conducted the original interview. An interview about an interview. Kind of meta, right?It solved a number of problems. Original interviews contain many compelling moments you’d want to hear, but require a lot of context to understand. Who better to provide that context than the reporters who did the interview?That’s what you heard when I spoke with John Eligon, a national correspondent based in Kansas City. He interviewed the Cook County state’s attorney, Kim Foxx, about her closely watched prosecution of the musician R. Kelly, sent the recording to producers Jessica Cheung and Annie Brown, and then sat for an interview about the interview. Listen here.Talk to Michael on Twitter: @mikiebarb.Ahead of Monday’s episode, we asked Mike Schmidt to document his Sunday through iPhone voice memos as he and his colleagues in the Washington bureau — Elisabeth Bumiller, Mark Landler, Nick Fandos and others — awaited the attorney general’s summary of the Mueller report. Listen to his audio diary from the afternoon, up until the moment when the news dropped:Producer Clare Toeniskoetter on how she gets sound from reporters who are many thousands of miles away:“When we interview foreign correspondents, it’s always a challenge to figure out how to record their end of the conversation. For our episode about Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, I reached out to Jerusalem bureau chief David Halbfinger, who told me he already had his own high-quality microphone (something that producers love to hear), but had no way of holding it steady during our interview. That’s where a music stand and some packing tape came in. Plus, we found out David’s secret talent — he’s a violinist!”Coordination: not established. Obstruction: more complicated. We talk to Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt about how the attorney general summarized the Mueller report. The special counsel was supposed to decide whether Trump committed a crime, but the attorney general did so instead. “I’m starting to think that the special counsel regulations, the way that this investigation was set up, has failed,” Mike Schmidt told us. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces indictment on charges of bribery and fraud. And yet so many are ready to re-elect him. David Halbfinger explains why.Kim Foxx, the prosecutor who took the unusual step of asking R. Kelly’s accusers to come forward, says she knows how difficult it can be to speak out about sexual abuse.“Atta was an angel. Honestly, not because he was my husband. He was too good to be true.” A family in New Zealand says goodbye to a loved one they lost in the attack at Al Noor Mosque.For the biggest stories of our time, told by New York Times journalists each weekday, listen to “The Daily.” You can find it at nytimes.com/thedaily or wherever you get your podcasts.Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.Advertisement