AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Wednesday — Today’s the first day of spring (also known as the vernal equinox, when there are equal periods of daytime and nighttime across the globe).Weather:  Grab the sunglasses again. It’ll be bright, with temperatures starting in the upper 30s and expected to go above 50 this afternoon. Tomorrow, you may need an umbrella.Alternate-side parking: In effect through Wednesday (suspended Thursday for Purim).Two years ago, only 13 black students were offered seats at the city’s elite Stuyvesant High School.This week, only seven black students were accepted into the incoming freshman class.Whose fault is it, and what do racial disparities at the city’s highly selective public high schools say about New York?Eliza Shapiro, a Times education reporter, helped explain in an interview:What are the numbers?Eight New York City specialized high schools accept students based on their score on a high-stakes test. Stuyvesant has the highest cutoff score for admission, and now has the lowest percentage of black and Hispanic students of the city’s roughly 600 public high schools.Of the 895 students accepted into Stuyvesant’s next freshman class:• 587 are Asian-American• 194 are white• 33 are Hispanic• 7 are blackThe remaining students are of various backgrounds.How should we interpret these numbers?Either, 1) the test is flawed and not accurately capturing the best and brightest students, or 2) the test is fair, and the schools that are preparing these children are bad.What are the solutions for reducing disparity?The main focus is on the test. With the stroke of a pen, Mayor Bill de Blasio could change the admission criteria for the five elite schools created by former Mayor Michael Bloomberg (Stuyvesant is not one of them).Mr. de Blasio said that option would create a confusing two-tiered system. He wants state lawmakers to change the rules for all the elite high schools. But that path is all but dead in Albany, where the focus is on more popular progressive issues.Carl Heastie, the Assembly speaker, previously said his conference had not raised the matter because it was divisive: The schools’ alumni organizations and Asian-American families had argued that any change would undermine academics or discriminate against the low-income Asian-Americans who attend the specialized schools in large numbers.(On Tuesday evening, Mr. Heastie wrote on Twitter that the Assembly might hold hearings on the issue in May.)Is “just fix the K-8 schools” a possibility?This is what every leader in New York City has tried to do for the last 70 years. It’s not as if the city isn’t trying to improve all schools. That’s the explicit goal of the Department of Education. That is the work that is going on every hour of every day. “Fix the education system” is not the whole story.What would any changes to admissions criteria be trying to achieve? More racial diversity at elite high schools. This is a question about who deserves the scarcity of these excellent seats, and how you determine that.And whatever changes are made, Asian-Americans stand to lose a large number of the seats they hold.Might this be an issue in the 2021 mayoral election?Or sooner. We’re no longer in a place where you can’t take a position on this if you’re an elected official. You can’t just say, “Oh, these numbers are unfortunate.”If the test keeps producing a student body that looks nothing like the school system, but you don’t want to get rid of the test, what do you want to do?Many lawmakers aren’t even proposing solutions. Governor Cuomo and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez have mostly avoided taking a definitive position on this.The Times Opinion columnist Nicholas Kristof writes about New York’s young chess champion: Tanitoluwa Adewumi, a refugee living in a homeless shelter in Manhattan. For city workers ousted over sexual harassment charges, “neutral reference agreements” help them hide bad behavior from prospective employers.A calf that ended up on the Major Deegan Expressway is the latest slaughterhouse escapee. The special counsel sought Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, court documents show.When is dog barking excessive? This New Jersey town may put time limits on it.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle. Two people were killed and dozens were injured when a bus bound for New York crashed in Virginia. [New York Post] New York could raise more than $1 billion if it charged motorists a one-cent-per-mile fee. [The Wall Street Journal] A Bronx police officer thought to have been fatally shot in 1999 is alive. [Daily News] Is Representative Hakeem Jeffries  a future speaker of the House, ripe for a primary challenge or both? [New York]“Women’s History, Women’s Present,” a night of comedy, conversation and musical theater with The New York Times’s Opinion section, features the author Jennifer Weiner and the data journalist Mona Chalabi at the TimesCenter in Manhattan. 7:30 p.m. [$40]Make your way to the American Folk Art Museum in Manhattan for an afternoon of jazz. 2 p.m. [Free]Join the Central Park Conservancy in celebrating the first day of spring with a full day of events. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Free]— Derek NormanEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Victoria Bekiempis reports:It was an unexpected sight on the Fourth of July: A woman protesting the Trump administration’s immigration policies climbed onto the Statue of Liberty’s base and refused to descend.Her three-hour standoff with the authorities last summer was shown live on television and led to the evacuation of 4,300 visitors on one of the monument’s busiest days of the year.On Tuesday, the woman, Therese Patricia Okoumou, 45, of Staten Island, was sentenced in federal court in Manhattan to five years’ probation for trespassing, among other crimes.At the sentencing, Ms. Okoumou remained unapologetic about her activism. She arrived with tape on her mouth and face, rendering her unable to speak. She also had tape over her eyes.Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein, seemingly irked, told her lawyers: “If you want to proceed today, she can get the tape off. If you want to put it off for another day, when she can proceed properly, let me know.”Ms. Okoumou removed the tape. When she addressed the court, she criticized the detention of migrant children who cross the United States’ border with Mexico.“This practice is cruel,” she said, adding, “You are a society that has lost any sense.”Judge Gorenstein, who recently visited the Statue of Liberty with Ms. Okoumou to determine how much danger her climb had posed to others, chastised her for her actions.“Her response seems to be, ‘I want to save the children,’ but she did not climb the Statue of Liberty to rescue a child,” Judge Gorenstein said, prompting boos from her supporters in the courtroom.“This was a dangerous action that put other people on jeopardy,” Brett Kalikow, a prosecutor, said.Still, the judge said, a sentence of probation and 200 hours of community service would help deter similar ascents.When asked outside the courtroom whether she would climb another structure while on probation, Ms. Okoumou demurred.“There are no guarantees in this world,” Ronald Kuby, one of her lawyers, said.It’s Wednesday — Happy Purim to those celebrating this evening. (Pictures from last year were memorable.)Dear Diary:There is an older man who stands at the corner of Stockholm Street and Knickerbocker Avenue in Brooklyn selling churros every day.“Two for a dollar,” he says to those who pass by. He keeps the churros in a cooler.It’s the dead of winter, and the winds from the polar vortex are causing branches to tap at my window.Looking out, I see frozen puddles and litter lining the curb. An empty chip bag would shatter like glass if it was picked up and dropped.I take a sip of coffee.“Oh my God,” I think, “the churro man.”— Cameron GleasonNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement