AdvertisementSupported byInside the ListBy Tina JordanHave you watched the heartbreaking viral video of Mama, a dying elderly chimpanzee, as she says goodbye to a scientist who was part of her life for many years? (If you haven’t seen it, you should — just lay in a supply of Kleenex first.) The Dutch-born primatologist Frans de Waal believes that Mama’s tender caresses show that animal emotions are the same as our own.“We like to see ourselves as special, but whatever the difference between humans and animals may be, it is unlikely to be found in the emotional domain,” he wrote in a Times Op-Ed. His new book, “Mama’s Last Hug: Animal Emotions and What They Tell Us About Ourselves,” enters the list at No. 4.“I think animal intelligence and emotions are completely intertwined,” de Waal said recently on the Times Book Review podcast. “Also in humans, I think, you cannot separate the two. You can barely think without emotions, and you can barely have emotions if there’s not some cognition involved.” He explained, “Emotions are bodily states. When you get emotional, your heart rate goes up, your blood pressure increases. … These changes are very much the same in humans and animals. For example, we say we get ‘cold feet’ when we’re afraid, and that’s literally true, we’ve tested it. It’s true for rats, too — they get cold feet, and their tails get cold, when they are scared. What fear does is draw the blood from the extremities.”De Waal says that “animals that are close to us,” like apes, express emotions the way we do. Animals that aren’t similar express emotions with different bodily reactions: “The octopus changes color, for example — for fear, for camouflage.”Laurie Halse Anderson’s landmark 1999 Y.A. novel, “Speak” — about a high school freshman struggling in the aftermath of a rape — was one of the first to address sexual violence. Last year Anderson told The Times that as she toured schools, talking about “Speak,” students asked her, “Did this happen to you?”[ ‘Dracula’ “freaked me out so much I threw it under my bed, then became slightly hysterical,” Laurie Halse Anderson said in a recent By the Book interview. ]It had — Anderson was raped when she was 13. Now, 20 years later, she’s written a memoir in verse, “Shout,” which debuts this week at No. 4. In it, she describes her post-rape trauma, her sometimes rough childhood (both her parents drank too much, and her father, a veteran, had PTSD) and the solace she found in reading: “the only thing that helped me breathe / was opening a book.”Follow Tina Jordan on Twitter: @TinaJordanNYTFollow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.OpinionFrans de WaalOpinionKate MurphyAdvertisement