AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Virginia Lozano(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. As new details emerge about the suspect in the New Zealand terrorist attack, the country is asking what, if anything, it could have done differently.Officials are wondering if they missed something about the 28-year-old Australian who is said to have attacked two mosques in Christchurch on Friday, leaving at least 50 people dead. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern ordered an inquiry into whether government agencies could have prevented the attacks.Her cabinet also agreed “in principle” to overhaul the country’s gun laws and will announce reforms “within 10 days of this horrific act of terrorism,” she said at a news conference. Above, students from across Christchurch gathered for a memorial near one of the mosques.New Zealand’s deputy police commissioner said specialists had worked through the night to identify the people killed at the mosques. Islamic leaders and victims’ families have been discussing holding a burial for all victims, possibly on Wednesday.Here’s our guide to groups offering aid to the victims._____2. All eyes turned to the city of Utrecht in the Netherlands, where at least one gunman opened fire on a tram, killing three people and injuring five more.A 37-year-old Turkish-born man was arrested after an eight-hour manhunt. The authorities initially said they were looking into the possibility the shooting was an act of terror, though they did not rule out other motives, and some reports attributed the attack to a domestic dispute.Mosques were evacuated in the city, but it was unclear if that move stemmed from a specific threat or was a precaution in the wake of the attacks in New Zealand. The Utrecht shooting took place in a neighborhood with a large Muslim and immigrant population._____3. President Trump and Deutsche Bank have had a long, symbiotic and at times troubled relationship. Now, as investigators in Washington and New York scrutinize their deals, we looked into that history.The German bank’s hunger for profits and risk led it to lend Mr. Trump more than $2 billion before he was president. Once he was elected, it went into damage-control mode, bracing for scrutiny. It even told Wall Street employees not to utter the Trump name. Above, the bank’s headquarters in Frankfurt.Deutsche Bank officials have quietly downplayed the relationship with Mr. Trump, and said that the lending was the work of a single, obscure division. But interviews with more than 20 current and former executives and board members contradict that narrative._____4. The Democratic Party is at odds over how to fulfill its promise to lower health care costs.Centrists, with the support of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, favor incremental moves to shore up the Affordable Care Act. But progressives — as well as at least four of the party’s presidential candidates — are pushing for a single-payer system, or “Medicare for all.”The fight will take shape in coming weeks as the new House majority assembles its first budget, and will continue on the 2020 campaign trail. Above, nurses rallying on Capitol Hill in 2017.Separately, Beto O’Rourke raised $6.1 million online within 24 hours of announcing his presidential run, outpacing his Democratic rivals._____5. Record-breaking spring floods have left a wide area in the Midwest underwater, swamping farmland and forcing hundreds of families to flee their homes.At least two people in Nebraska have died, and two are missing. The Mississippi and Missouri flood plains were hard hit, with many levees breached. And Offutt Air Force Base, outside Omaha, said it was one-third underwater on Sunday. Above, floodwaters in Plattsmouth, Neb.The devastating floods came mainly from what the rain fell upon: a snow-covered region that was unable to absorb much of the blow.The governors of Nebraska, South Dakota and Wisconsin have declared emergencies, and Iowa’s governor has issued a disaster proclamation._____6. A new survey of 9,000 economists revealed deep evidence of gender and racial discrimination within the field.There were hundreds of reports of sexual assault, attempted sexual assault and stalking, and half of the women who responded said they had been treated unfairly because of their sex. Half also said they had avoided speaking at a conference or seminar to guard against harassment.Among black economists surveyed, only 14 percent agreed with the statement that “people of my race/ethnicity are respected within the field.”“What you see in this survey is just an unacceptable culture,” said Janet Yellen, above in 2017, the former Federal Reserve chief and next president of the association._____7. President Trump wants to end the AIDS epidemic. But in places like Mississippi, that won’t be easy.The Trump administration will focus on more than 50 “hot spots” in the U.S. that annually account for half of new H.I.V. infections.The group most at risk for infection comprises gay and bisexual black men and transgender women in the Deep South. Nationally, gay and bisexual black men face a 50 percent risk of H.I.V. infection over their lifetimes.We visited a clinic in Jackson, Miss., that sees the challenges every day, where poverty, bigotry and mistrust all conspire to make it hard to help patients avoid H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. Regi Stevenson, above, works at the clinic, which was created specifically to reach gay black men._____8. Brackets at the ready.The N.C.A.A.’s men’s basketball tournament begins this week, and heading into it, everyone has a bracket strategy — whether it’s mascots or colors or coin flips. Why not take some risks when you fill out yours this year? Our basketball columnist has some suggestions. And here’s a printable bracket.We’ve rounded up regional previews for the East, where Zion Williamson, above, and Duke received the top seed in the tournament, West, South and Midwest. The women’s N.C.A.A. basketball tournament bracket was accidentally leaked on E.S.P.N.Separately, Bella Alarie of Princeton has a chance to do something no Ivy League player has done in more than a decade: have a major W.N.B.A. career._____9. We have book news in all shapes, sizes, ages and price points.For most visitors, the annual New York International Antiquarian Book Fair is a chance to hear dealers share the fascinating stories behind their wares. But for collectors, it offers an opportunity to acquire books that are truly one of a kind (the asking price for an 18th century book on the marine life of the East Indies, above, was listed at $145,000).We also have two book reviews on Supreme Court justices: “First,” a new biography of Sandra Day O’Connor, the first woman on the court, and “The Chief,” which examines Chief Justice John Roberts’s life and his career on the Supreme Court._____10. Finally, a seven-hour, six-mile tour of the Prado.On the year of the Madrid museum’s bicentennial, our writer visited every gallery, vestibule and passageway to see if he had missed anything on his previous 200 visits. He had.After 12,000 steps, he found that a gallery dedicated to stunning decorated objects, displayed next to their leather cases, “provided a fitting metaphor for the Prado itself: artistic perfection inside and out.”Have an inquisitive night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement