AdvertisementSupported byBy Jillian Rayfield and Virginia Lozano(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump blamed “treasonous” critics for the Russia investigation.A day after possibly the best day of his tenure — when the Justice Department reported that the Mueller inquiry had not found a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia — a grim, angry Mr. Trump said that his critics should be investigated themselves.“They lied to Congress, many of them, you know who they are,” he said. “They’ve done so many evil things.”The president’s Republican allies followed suit. Senator Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, vowed to launch an investigation into anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. and Justice Department._____2. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, who has remained largely silent in public, is returning to civilian life under the post-report spotlight.Our Washington reporters took a look at what his life has been like over the last two years, including his regular Sunday morning church services and Friday night meal of wine and scallops.Meanwhile, Democrats are gearing up to fight for the release of the full report and questioning the attorney general’s decision to clear the president of obstruction of justice, which Mr. Mueller declined to do. Above, a reflection of the Capitol from the Russell Senate building in Washington._____3. President Trump formally recognized Israeli authority over the Golan Heights.It was a political gift to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, above left, ahead of a tight Israeli election, and it came just as Mr. Netanyahu confronted a domestic crisis: a rocket launched from Gaza that hit a home in central Israel, injuring seven people.In the wake of the attack, Mr. Netanyahu had to cancel his planned speech to a conference organized by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobby group known as Aipac, but his chief rival in the election, Benny Gantz, spoke.Timed to the conference, Senate Republicans are introducing two bills on anti-Semitism, part of a strategy to court American Jews and deepen fractures in the Democratic Party._____4. Britain’s Parliament is trying to seize control of the Brexit process.The lawmakers passed an amendment giving themselves the power to vote on alternatives to Prime Minister Theresa May’s twice-rejected plan on Wednesday.The move — a remarkable rebuke to Mrs. May, pictured above outside of Downing Street today — could create a constitutional showdown.And it makes the week that was supposed to end with Britain’s departure from the European Union into a very different kind of turning point._____5. We’re tracking a series of suicides among those closely affected by mass shootings.Jeremy Richman, 49, above right, whose 6-year-old daughter was one of the 20 children killed at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, was found dead today, with a note nearby whose contents were not disclosed.Two survivors of last year’s school shooting in Parkland, Fla., also died recently in apparent suicides: a 16-year-old last weekend and a 19-year-old the weekend before._____6. Today’s tech news: There’s a flood of initial public offerings within sight, from companies like Lyft, Pinterest and Airbnb.So the investors who helped nurture “unicorns,” the start-ups valued at more than $1 billion, are dropping their modesty, and getting ready for a big payday. You could say they’re going to embody a different animal metaphor: the peacock.On the product side, Apple unveiled new services that shift its focus away from hardware, notably a new video service, Apple TV+ (Plus), to launch this fall in 100 countries, and a news subscription service offering access to 300 magazines and newspapers for $9.99 a month._____7. They were looking for adventure. They found violence.The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed, and with them, tales of violence and death. One woman’s brutalized body was found near her Airbnb in Costa Rica. Another, Hannah Gavios, above, had to learn to walk again after tumbling from a cliff in Thailand and being sexually assaulted while she lay helpless.These stories raise questions about how the world is greeting female solo travelers, how social media portrays the accessibility of some far-flung destinations and the enduring nature of gender violence worldwide._____8. Germany’s second-richest family asked a historian to investigate the origins of its fortune.He found a dark past that involved forced labor during the Nazi era, news of which broke Sunday in the German tabloid Bild.The Reimann family, which controls a consumer goods conglomerate, JAB Holding Company, that includes Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Jimmy Choo shoes and Calvin Klein perfume, learned that their father and grandfather were Hitler supporters and anti-Semites who used forced laborers at their chemical company — and in their own home. Above, a JAB office building in Mannheim, Germany.“We were speechless,” said a family spokesman. “We were ashamed and were white as a wall.” The family intends to release the full, final report next year._____9. Favorites pack the Sweet Sixteen. The top 12 seeds in the men’s college basketball tournament have all advanced for just the second time since the bracket expanded to 64 teams in 1985. Two No. 4s made it too.That speaks well of the seeding process, our columnist writes, but the casual fan won’t be seeing the unlikely wins and upsets that make March Madness appealing.Here’s our look ahead at the men’s games. Here’s where we are after weekend play in the women’s tournament, and where to watch tonight._____10. Finally, a book that our critic calls a “brainy, gleaming epic.”“The Old Drift,” the debut novel from Namwali Serpell, follows the fortunes of three families with ties to Zambia across four generations.“This is a dazzling book, as ambitious as any first novel published this decade,” Dwight Garner writes. “It made the skin on the back of my neck prickle.”Have a brilliant night.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to an attack on Hannah Gavios, a solo female traveler. She was sexually assaulted, not raped. The briefing also misstated the location of the attack. It was in Thailand, not Vietnam.Advertisement