AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinAt an awards ceremony last year for cheerleaders at Tremper High School in Kenosha, Wis., some of the students received awards called “Big Booty,” “Big Boobie” and “String Bean.” Similar awards had been given to students in 2017.Now, prizes like those have been banned in the district.Coaches described the mock awards as good-natured teasing, but some parents and students were appalled, and the event was challenged by the American Civil Liberties Union, which sent a formal warning to the Kenosha Unified School District last month.On Monday, a letter from the district superintendent, Sue Savaglio-Jarvis, said that “the district has taken prompt and remedial action in order to protect the students and to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring in the future.”“Mock awards of any such kind per the date of this memo are strictly prohibited,” it added.There was also a mandatory training session on discrimination and harassment for administrators, principals, assistant principals and supervisors on Monday. Dr. Savaglio-Jarvis said that district staff members would be disciplined or fired if they harassed students or saw harassment and did not report it.In its warning letter, the A.C.L.U. said it might sue the district because it had “failed to take any meaningful corrective action” in the case.That warning also pointed out that in addition to the awards ceremony at Tremper, there were concerns that another high school in the district, Bradford High School, showed a video in its health classes that seemed to blame victims for sexual assault. The district removed that video from the curriculum.The district also updated a dress code policy last year that had barred girls from wearing yoga pants, leggings and tank tops after the A.C.L.U. challenged its enforcement.On Monday, a spokeswoman for the Kenosha Unified School District said that two coaches involved in the cheerleading controversy were no longer with the district.“Kenosha Unified recognizes our obligation to provide students and staff an environment free of discrimination and harassment and realizes the issues brought forth are not acceptable,” the district said in a statement.“It is our sincere hope that by outlining expectations and providing ongoing training to our staff we can avoid further issues of any kind. At this time, training has started with administration and coaches.”About 100 people, including parents, coaches and students, attended last year’s ceremony in Kenosha, where students also received awards for athletic achievements. Last month, a cheerleader at Tremper High School spoke with The New York Times and described how she felt when the coaches gave the mock awards.“When the girl went up to accept the Big Boobie award, what do you think everyone in the room was looking at?” she said. “I would’ve died.”Juliet Macur contributed reporting.Advertisement