AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.The actor Jussie Smollett, facing charges of falsely reporting a hate crime in Chicago, was delivered an unexpected win on Tuesday when the Cook County state’s attorney dropped all 16 counts against him.Both Stephen Colbert and James Corden drew a parallel between this and another bit of recent news: Attorney General William P. Barr’s interpretation of a report filed by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, investigating collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.“This morning, we learned that, for some reason, charges have been dropped against ‘Empire’ actor Jussie Smollett. Man, Bill Barr has been busy.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“Yes, it is wrong. But on the other hand, isn’t it a hopeful sign for America that regardless of your race or sexual orientation, all rich famous people get off easily?” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Smollett isn’t being charged with a crime, but he hasn’t been officially ‘exonerated.’ So if nothing else, he is now qualified to be president of the United States.” — JAMES CORDEN“No word yet on whether Smollett will be invited to return to his role on ‘Empire.’ But it is very impressive that one person might be too much drama for the show ‘Empire.’” — JAMES CORDENPresident Trump and his allies on Fox News this week have not just been celebrating the outcome of the Mueller investigation. They have also been calling for the architects behind the investigation to be punished. Insisting that the entire thing was a ruse, Trump said on Tuesday: “We can never let this to happen to another president again.”Trevor Noah sarcastically bashed that response, while impersonating him.“Which is why I won’t allow America to have another president ever again, folks. I can’t allow it. No more.” — TREVOR NOAH, impersonating Trump“By the way, have you ever noticed that Trump is terrible at comforting victims unless it’s him? Because you never hear this level of compassion from Trump about, like, Puerto Rico. When that happens, he’s like, ‘Here’s one paper towel. Go long!’” — TREVOR NOAHSarah Huckabee-Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Democrats should be “ashamed” for having supported the Mueller investigation.“Yeah, these Democrats should be ashamed! They used this investigation to try and take down the president? If you want to take down a president, you do it the right way: by claiming he was born in Kenya! This is disgusting!” — TREVOR NOAHCorden, Cara Delevingne and Kobe Bryant tried their best to both embarrass and gross each other out. That’s the point of this cruel game, Spill Your Guts.“Barrnotes:” They’re like SparkNotes, except they’ll give you “just enough information to leave you confused and angry.”Snoop Dogg will join Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday to talk about his new show with — truly now — Martha Stewart.New York’s New Directors/New Films festival is a post-awards-season opportunity to catch offbeat films you might’ve missed elsewhere. Often, there are gems hidden among them. Here are the 11 movies at New Films that our critics think you should know about.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisement