AdvertisementSupported byBy Shane GoldmacherAt first glance, there was nothing notable about the day Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio received his greatest number of online contributions in the past six years. It was just another Monday in the doldrums of August 2018.And for Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is now running for president, her largest number of online contributions came on what seemed like a random Friday in June 2017.But those two days actually had something in common. They were days that Kamala Harris, the junior senator from California, had asked her email list to contribute to those colleagues.Over the last two years, Ms. Harris has systematically constructed a database of donors and email addresses that raised several million dollars for her fellow Democrats, demonstrating an uncommon potency for a first-term senator, according to federal election records and interviews with numerous political strategists. Now, as she makes her own run for president, her digital following serves as a kind of stealth weapon, putting her in perhaps the best position to challenge the small-dollar fund-raising operations of two top rivals,  former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.Those two candidates outgunned every other 2020 Democratic candidate with their roughly $6 million hauls in the first day of fund-raising, besting Ms. Harris by 4 to 1. Ms. Harris raised $1.5 million, the next-highest total in the field, from more than 38,000 donors in the first 24 hours.In a campaign in which small donations have emerged as an early proxy for viability, Ms. Harris’s team hopes her grass-roots appeal will allow her to compete at the highest level of American politics. The first full look at her strength will come in her total fund-raising for the first quarter of 2019, which ends Sunday and will be publicly disclosed in the first half of April.Laura Olin, a digital strategist on President Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, said Ms. Harris’s standing among small donors remains “underappreciated.”“She has more enthusiasm among the base than she is given credit for,” said Ms. Olin, who is unaligned in the 2020 race.[Sign up for our politics newsletter. Lisa Lerer will be your guide through the 2020 race and share what you really need to know.]There is no question that Ms. Harris remains far behind Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke in the race for small donors. But unlike those two rivals, Ms. Harris has not benefited from running in a campaign that soaked up national attention, which suggests she has barely begun to tap into her fund-raising potential, digital experts said.Ms. Harris’s first-day fund-raising figures were almost identical to what Mr. Sanders raised on his first day in 2015, when he made a splash as a favorite of grass-roots givers. Her campaign has said that her email list grew by 20 percent on that day alone. People close to the Sanders and O’Rourke campaigns view Ms. Harris as the candidate most likely to eventually compete with them for small donations.Some rivals have already witnessed her list’s force and reach.The day of Ms. Klobuchar’s windfall, Ms. Harris had written an email seeking contributions for several female Democratic senators, including Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who is also running for president. The number of online donations Ms. Gillibrand received that day ranks as her fourth-most — one spot behind the day President Trump attacked her on Twitter — according to an analysis of election data from ActBlue, which processes Democratic donations online.For Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, also a 2020 candidate, her top two days in the last six years, in terms of number of online donations, coincided with days that Ms. Harris had asked her email list to support Ms. Warren financially. (One was after the now-infamous attempt to silence Ms. Warren on the Senate floor, when the Republican leader declared, “Nevertheless, she persisted.”)[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]“We couldn’t run a campaign of this magnitude without the consistent support of our incredible online supporters,” said Shelby Cole, who runs Ms. Harris’s email program and previously worked on Mr. O’Rourke’s Senate race. “Our supporters aren’t an ATM. This is a deep, lasting relationship we constantly seek to strengthen because their voices are central to our grass-roots campaign.”Unlike Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, who have sworn off big-money fund-raisers, Ms. Harris has raced across the country to appear at events where donors give as much as $2,800 to attend; last week she held fund-raisers in Texas and California.For the most part, Ms. Harris has kept the breadth of her online donor list hidden by fund-raising so heavily in 2018 for other candidates, rather than herself.[Read about Kamala Harris’s growing pains on the presidential campaign trail]In October, Ms. Harris sent an email asking for donations to Joe Donnelly, an endangered senator from Indiana, during the fight over Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court. Though she split the proceeds with Mr. Donnelly, his campaign manager, Peter Hanscom, said it was the most money — about $100,000 — anyone had ever raised for the campaign with a single email.“There were other colleagues of Joe’s” who did send such messages, Mr. Hanscom said. “She, by far, had the largest impact.”The next day, Ms. Harris sent an email urging donations to Heidi Heitkamp, then a North Dakota senator, after she voiced her opposition to Justice Kavanaugh. It raised more than $450,000, stunning the small world of political operatives who track such things.Ms. Harris has used her email list for charity, too.Lisa Blanchard, who founded the Grateful Garment Project, which provides fresh clothing at hospitals for victims of sexual violence, recounted how a co-worker burst into her office last year clutching a $29,966.48 check.The check came from ActBlue, which Ms. Blanchard had never heard of. So she called, and ActBlue told her that Ms. Harris had sent an email on behalf of the Grateful Garment Project and three other nonprofits. She had no heads up this was happening.“Good for her, she’s got a powerful list! I say, go girl,” Ms. Blanchard said, before quickly adding, “We’d be glad for her to do it again!”Simply including “Kamala Harris” in the sender line of an email can spur donations, said Ilya Sheyman, the executive director for MoveOn.org, the online grass-roots activist group. Emails signed by Ms. Harris raised more than $1 million from MoveOn members, he said.“She was the top senator or elected official in 2018 when it came to galvanizing MoveOn members to give to candidates,” Mr. Sheyman said, noting it showed her appeal to activists and donors beyond her existing list. “One of the dynamics in the past year was seeing Harris emerge as a breakout on the national stage, as a galvanizing force,” he added.Until recently, Ms. Harris had, like most politicians, relied overwhelmingly on large donations. In her 2016 election to the Senate, less than 16 percent of the $13.3 million she raised from individuals came from donations of less than $200.But on the night of that election, her victory speech — which she made just as it became clear President Trump had won — went viral. “Do we retreat or do we fight?” Ms. Harris said that night. “I say we fight. And I intend to fight.”The next day, Ms. Harris’s political brain trust decamped to her Los Angeles campaign headquarters to figure out what came next, according to people involved in the discussions. The team agreed that Mike Nellis, her top digital strategist, would be given a budget to try to expand her small donor base, buying ads on sites like Facebook to mine new supporters.The timing proved fortuitous. With the election over, many Democrats had suddenly withdrawn from the online advertising landscape. Ms. Harris’s campaign filled the void — and made back $10 for every $1 it spent initially, according to a campaign official. The money was promptly reinvested.That reinvestment quickly netted even more money. And so the campaign invested more, repeating the process until, by the end of 2018, Ms. Harris had spent $4.93 million on digital advertisements over two years, campaign records show.In those two years, Ms. Harris raised more than 75 percent of her money from donations of less than $200 — a total of $5.845 million — a major reversal from her reliance on big money in 2016.[Kamala Harris has faced criticism from within her party for her record as a California prosecutor.]The biggest moment, which one Harris adviser called “transformational,” was the confirmation fight over Justice Kavanaugh.She launched an online petition to stop the nomination that garnered more than 1 million signatures, according to ads she ran on Facebook — a gargantuan sum for a grass-roots effort. Those signers are now part of her email database.Records show that Ms. Harris’s list grew steadily in strength as her presidential bid approached: Eight of her top 10 days for the number of online donations came in the last four months of 2018, according to ActBlue data. In contrast, none of Ms. Gillibrand’s top 10 days, and only two of Ms. Warren’s, came in that time period; for Ms. Warren, one of them was Dec. 31, the day she announced her bid for president.Ms. Harris’s ascendancy in online fund-raising has produced a role reversal with Ms. Warren. After Ms. Warren’s election to the Senate in 2012, it was her email list that was the envy of Democratic politics. And it was Ms. Harris who depended on the generosity of Ms. Warren to drive her small-dollar donations.In Ms. Harris’s 2016 run for Senate, according to ActBlue records, she topped 1,000 online donations only three times. Those three days had one thing in common: an email from Ms. Warren to her list asking for donations to Ms. Harris.Rachel Shorey contributed reporting.Advertisement