AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Friday.Weather: Friday may be wet. Expect sprinkles throughout the day, strong winds in the afternoon and a high near 50. Saturday may feel chilly. Sunday will be warmer.Alternate-side parking: In effect until April 18 (Holy Thursday).The city’s subway trains are arriving on time more often, yet riders might be noticing an unusual divide in the system. The numbered lines are performing better than the lettered ones.To get a sense of why this is happening, I talked to my colleague Emma G. Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter.[Why New York’s lettered subway lines are “cursed.”]How are the trains performing?In 2017, less than 65 percent of trains were on time — the worst of any major transit system in the world, Ms. Fitzsimmons has reported. This year, that improved to 76 percent.But there was a twist: The seven numbered trains were outperforming the 15 lettered trains. Seventy-nine percent of numbered trains were on time, compared with 68 percent of lettered trains.Why are numbered trains doing better?Subway leaders cite several reasons:• Schedule changes on the numbered lines improved the on-time rate.• A computer system on the numbered lines allows workers to more efficiently dispatch trains.• The opening of the Second Avenue subway eased crowding on several numbered lines, and signal upgrades improved service on another numbered line.Is there one thing that can improve all trains?Modern signals are the No. 1 solution, Ms. Fitzsimmons said.The subway system’s chief, Andy Byford, wants to install these signals on all the lines, but that takes time and costs billions. He hasn’t secured the funding from state lawmakers (yet).The subway system also needs new train cars. Trains on the C line are the oldest in daily operation in the world, according to Metropolitan Transportation Authority officials.Do affluent neighborhoods have better trains?Not necessarily. The F train goes through Park Slope and other wealthy neighborhoods in Brooklyn, and it has really terrible service. The on-time rate is about 50 percent — the lowest in the city.One reason I left Park Slope was because I didn’t want to live on the F train. I now ride the A train in Washington Heights, and it’s a much better experience.Why were the lines assigned certain letters and numbers?Three competing systems were built throughout the city.• The Interborough Rapid Transit Company built the trains that are numbered.• The Independent System included what are now the A, C, D, E, F, G, R and Q lines.• The Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation included what are now the B, J, M, N, Z and L lines.The companies were merged in 1953. (The W line was created in 2001.)Have you noticed those weird new mailboxes? Here’s why the Postal Service made the change.Several women said the philanthropist Michael Steinhardt made sexual requests of them while they were relying on or seeking his support. He denies many of the actions attributed to him.Con Ed cut off new gas hookups in some New York suburbs. The move in Westchester County set off anger and panic among developers.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez doesn’t have an office in the Bronx. [New York Post]Friends of N.R.A. are planning a fund-raiser next month in southern Brooklyn. [BKLYNER]A charity volunteer was accused of stealing nearly half a million dollars donated to help the families of slain New York City police officers. [Daily News]New York’s marijuana legalization plan is getting derailed, said a state senator. [Cannabis Wire]New York restaurants thought he was a real Instagram influencer so they gave him discounted meals. [BuzzFeed News]Anyone can pitch a business idea at this meeting inside Jay-Z’s club. [Wall Street Journal]Friday:If you’re curious what a burlesque show featuring faces from popular video games might look like, make your way to The Nest in Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [$20]Local comics meet for a Comedy Central-style roast of Netflix characters at The Creek and The Cave bar in Queens. 10 p.m. [$5]Saturday:Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn hosts the National Black Writers Conference Biennial Symposium, a gathering of writers, scholars, literary professionals, performers, students and the public. 11 a.m. [$20]Sunday:Queens Museum holds a workshop on how to fly kites. 1:30 p.m. [Free]The Urban Park Rangers program offers lessons in painting landscapes at Inwood Hill Park in Manhattan. 11 a.m. [Free]— Derek NormanEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Instead of the Big Apple, maybe New York should be called Bean Town.In 1994, Starbucks opened its first coffee shop in New York City. It was at 87th Street and Broadway.Ten years after the company’s debut here, the city’s Independent Budget Office determined that New Yorkers were downing so many lattes that if it taxed that coffee drink, it would  generate $12 million in revenue.So it really is no wonder that Starbucks, which was founded in Seattle, wrote on its website that “New York is America’s original coffee town.”All that coffee enthusiasm may help explain why the Coffee and Tea Festival in New York City outgrew the small Manhattan venue where it was first held 14 years ago.This weekend, the festival will be at the Brooklyn Expo Center in Greenpoint and will include seminars about Ethiopian coffee, “online tea matchmaking” and Italian iced coffee and tea. (Find out more on the festival’s website.)Kristyn Noren, who worked at a Starbucks for seven years, said that by her estimate New York is “one of the most caffeinated cities in America.”Mr. Noren knows beverages. She is the director of event marketing and sales for the festival, as well as the editor of Hard Cider News.She prefers her coffee black, preferably iced.So, which New York City coffee spot is her favorite?“Working with so many different coffee companies, I really can’t have a favorite,” she said.It’s Friday — drink up!Dear Diary:It was raining as I zoomed down the street on my longboard. The station was 11 blocks away, and the train I wanted to catch would be leaving in five minutes. I didn’t like my odds.Just as my leg began to tire out from pushing, a small sedan turned the corner behind me and began to trail me. I swerved to the side of the street to make space for the car to drive by.After speeding up, the car slowed down once it came even with me. The window rolled down, and a young guy wearing a Yankees cap poked out his head.“Where you off to?” he asked as we cruised along parallel to each other.“L.I.R.R.,” I said between breaths. “Queens Village Station.”He grinned.“Grab on.”I smiled, grabbed onto the window and felt my wheels scream as he picked up speed.— Zakariah RizviNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement