AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Tuesday. The actor Michael Imperioli, the Westchester County native who played Governor Cuomo in a recent television mini-series, is 53.Weather: Sunny, windy and brisk. It will feel like the low 20s in the morning, but the day will warm up to the high 40s by afternoon.Alternate-side parking: In effect until April 18 (Holy Thursday).The special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s investigation into President Trump is over.Now it’s New York’s turn.Federal and state prosecutors in New York are at the forefront of about a dozen investigations connected to Mr. Trump, which largely grew out of Mr. Mueller’s effort.Here’s a guide to the inquiries.Didn’t the Mueller report settle everything?Hardly. Mr. Mueller investigated two main issues: whether the Trump campaign conspired with the Russian government to interfere in the 2016 presidential election, and whether the president obstructed that investigation.[Read the key Mueller findings.]During that inquiry, evidence of other possible crimes came to light, so Mr. Mueller’s team referred cases to other offices for further investigation.How many investigations are there?About a dozen, according to sources and court documents. Typically, investigations are done in secret, so there is no official count.More than half appear to be in New York. Others are in Washington, Virginia and Los Angeles.Why are so many investigations in New York?Mr. Trump worked in New York for years and ran his campaign from here. That puts the president, his associates and his company, the Trump Organization, in the jurisdiction of New York investigators.Who is investigating in New York?• On the federal level: the Southern District of New York and the Eastern District of New York.• On the state level: the attorney general, the Manhattan district attorney, the Department of Financial Services and the Department of Taxation and Finance.What are they investigating?A lot. Mr. Trump’s business, his campaign, his inauguration and his presidency.They are mostly following his money: where it went and how it was accounted for.One set of inquiries relates to Mr. Trump’s campaign and other activities. Did his business arrange payments to women who claimed they had affairs with Mr. Trump, which may violate campaign finance rules?Did Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee make false filings with the Federal Election Commission? Did the committee receive illegal donations? Did a top campaign and inaugural committee fund-raiser use his connections to the president to bolster his own businesses?People who worked for Mr. Trump are also under scrutiny. Did Mr. Trump’s lawyers plan to offer a presidential pardon to a witness in exchange for keeping quiet? Can three companies that worked with Paul Manafort, the former presidential campaign chairman, be charged under the Foreign Agents Registration Act?Earlier activities are also under investigation.Has Mr. Trump’s family charitable foundation violated tax laws? Did the Trump Organization inflate insurance claims several years ago? Have Mr. Trump and his family underpaid taxes on his father’s real estate empire over several decades?How serious is all this?It varies. Some investigations are civil inquiries, and liability could lead to fines. Federal penalties could include prison time.The prevailing view at the federal Justice Department is that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The prosecutors in Manhattan could consider charging Mr. Trump after he leaves office.What’s next?Expect a lot of silence. This work can take time and is usually not done in public.What’s the takeaway?“By handing off so many cases to other offices, Mr. Mueller ensured that his investigation would live on for months, if not years, with prosecutors in New York,” according to my colleague Ben Protess, who has been reporting on these investigations.New York is poised to become the first city in the United States to introduce congestion pricing, putting new electronic tolls in place for drivers entering the busiest stretches of Manhattan, The Times’s Jesse McKinley and Winnie Hu reported.Details were not ironed out, but state leaders reached consensus that the plan was needed to help pay for much-needed repairs to the city’s subway system.[Read more about the congestion pricing plan.]A century after the first two women arrived in the Legislature, New Yorkers elected a record number of women to state government.An investigation has found allegations of sexual misconduct at Saint Ann’s, a prestigious Brooklyn private school.New Jersey lawmakers failed to pass a bill legalizing marijuana.The father of a Sandy Hook shooting victim died in an apparent suicide.A mayor mulling a 2020 bid? New York was buzzing over Pete Buttigieg, not Bill de Blasio.Representative José Serrano of the Bronx said he would not run for re-election, citing the effects of Parkinson’s disease.A New Jersey high school staged a production of the 1979 film “Alien,” and the internet had a meltdown.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Fewer undocumented immigrants who are victims of crime are stepping forward. [WNYC]A nurses’ strike slated to begin April 2 has been postponed, union officials said. [amNew York]Another day, another animal rescue in New York City. [NY1]A rogue sculpture shaped like a toe was found in Riverside Park. [West Side Rag]Did someone just find a silent home movie featuring Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac? [Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation]Explore space beyond Pluto at the American Museum of Natural History’s planetarium. 7 p.m. [$15]Watch a documentary about Jane Jacobs, an urban activist, at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6:30 p.m. [Free]The mathematician Shing-Tung Yau discusses his search for the universe’s hidden dimensions at the National Museum of Mathematics in Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [$10]Attend a public speaking workshop at Blank Studio N.Y.C. in Manhattan. 7 p.m. [$20]— Elisha BrownEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.You have to attend school until you are at least 16 years old.If you’re 17, you can work in a factory but cannot do construction work.And you can be elected to public office at 18, but you’ll have to wait three years before legally drinking alcohol.Sometimes, it can feel as if being young in New York City is a crime. In the 1950s, and earlier, it sort of was.“Kids were forming clubs, and adults were calling them gangs,” said Maeve Montalvo, an education coordinator at the Museum of the City of New York. On Wednesday at 5:30 p.m., the museum will host “Kids These Days: The Criminalization of Youth in New York,” a talk featuring Ella Antell, a doctoral candidate in United States history at Harvard University.There is a long record of adults looking at young people with trepidation, Ms. Antell said. Essentially, she said, teenagers gathered, and adults figured they were up to no good and called the groups “gangs.”“Youth themselves during this period didn’t call themselves gangs most of the time,” she added. “They called themselves street clubs or cliques. Adults perceived what they were doing as purely antisocial or purely criminal.”[In 1958, The Times explained teenage gang expressions, such as “cool it” and ”diddley bop.”]The people at the center of this conversation may be young, but the laws governing them are not.In 1933, for example, New York had juvenile delinquency laws that banned “extreme obscenities,” “running away from home” and “endangering the public morals of yourself or others,” Ms. Antell said.That last one “was concerned with controlling the sexual behavior of girls in particular,” she said. Put another way: “It was code word for prostitution.”It’s Tuesday — you don’t have to act your age today.Dear Diary:A friend’s husband found a young cat wandering in the Catskills. When they posted her picture on Facebook, something about her spoke to me. Although I’d had cats all my life, I hadn’t had one in more than eight months.“How will she get from the Catskills to Manhattan?” I asked.“I’ll drive her,” my friend’s husband said.The sweet little calico arrived three days later. The day after she showed up, I took her to my neighborhood vet for a checkup.He whisked her off for shots and blood tests and to treat her for roundworms, and then he brought her back to the examining room.“You just got very lucky,” he said.“I know!” I exclaimed. “She’s such a great cat.”“I was talking to the cat,” the vet said.— Barbara Peck New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement