AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Watkins[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Anthony Comello was known as an aimless young man on his family’s block in Staten Island, where he lived in his parents’ house. He could be helpful, offering during snowstorms to plow the streets with his pickup and to clear snow from neighbors’ driveways. But he also believed in far-right conspiracy theories, had an OxyContin habit and could be aggressive when he was high, people who knew him said.Still, he was not the kind of person anyone imagined would someday pull off the highest-profile mob killing in decades.Mr. Comello, a 24-year-old born and raised on Staten Island’s South Shore, is accused of gunning down a Gambino crime family leader, Francesco (Franky Boy) Cali, on a quiet street in Todt Hill last week.The shooting rocketed Mr. Comello, an otherwise unsensational young man who was struggling to launch his adult life, into true-crime infamy. But in the days since Mr. Cali, 53, was shot 10 times, Mr. Comello — as well as his motive — has remained a cipher.The police have not explained how Mr. Comello even crossed into Mr. Cali’s orbit, let alone why he allegedly decided to kill him. Mr. Comello has no known connection to organized crime, according to law enforcement officials and his friends.Whatever the motive of the shooting, the Gambino crime family has not historically been a forgiving entity, and officials say Mr. Comello faces a threat to his life in prison. He was being held in protective custody in New Jersey and was expected to be transferred to Staten Island on Monday.An outlandish twist came this week when Mr. Comello, at his first court appearance, displayed symbols and phrases associated with far-right conspiracy theories, scrawled on his palm with a pen. His lawyer said he had become obsessed with such theories in recent months. In February, officials said, Mr. Comello had shown up at public buildings announcing he wanted to make a “citizen’s arrest” of prominent liberal Democrats like Mayor Bill de Blasio.In his only comments since his arrest, Mr. Comello was cryptic. “Don’t believe in fairy tales,” he said to a Daily News reporter on March 20, before abruptly ending a short jailhouse interview.How all of the story’s incongruous pieces — a mob boss, a far-right conspiracy theory, a struggling young man from a middle-class Staten Island home — fit together remains unknown. Yet a fuller picture has emerged of a rudderless person who appeared to take an abruptly ominous turn and had been influenced by conspiracy theories in the dark corners of the internet.The son of a veteran manager at Bloomberg L.P. and a construction worker, Mr. Comello graduated from Tottenville High School in 2012. He was described by two former classmates as aloof but easily influenced, a teenager who sought approval from popular crowds but was never quite accepted into them.He experimented in high school with drugs, two former classmates said, and occasionally picked fights while under the influence. According to social media accounts, Mr. Comello started a Facebook group in 2011 to discuss prices of marijuana.But as high school friends matured and moved forward, Mr. Comello spiraled downward. By adulthood, his drug habit had escalated into a serious problem. According to three friends, Mr. Comello wrestled with drug addiction and popped pills, including OxyContin.A habitual smoker of Marlboro Reds, he was a regular at Campos deli a few blocks from his family’s home. Didar Janid, a deli employee, said Mr. Comello was friendly but had a combative reputation.“He was a little bit aggressive,” Mr. Janid, 46, said. “Gradually he was calming down.”[“I just heard the pow-pow-pow-pow-pow.” Read more about the fatal shooting of Francesco Cali on Staten Island.]Mr. Comello’s mother, Nicole Mucillo-Comello, 51, is a well-established executive overseeing information systems in the Bloomberg organization, where she has worked for 28 years, according to her social media accounts. His father, Alfonso Comello, 54, worked in Staten Island’s construction industry.Anthony Comello is the middle of three children. His older brother, Alfonso, 30, works in construction and was a mason for the New York City Housing Authority until 2016. Mr. Comello’s younger sister, Nicolette, 21, attends St. John’s University, according to her social media profile.On Retford Avenue, where Mr. Comello lived with his parents in a spacious, two-story home, he led a quiet existence. He was sometimes seen walking the neighborhood with a friend who lived nearby, neighbors said. Reached by a reporter, the friend declined to comment.Mr. Comello appeared to have odd construction jobs and was often seen working with his father, according to neighbors. The family home had a fleet of pickup trucks, one said.“I’ve seen his parents numerous times,” said Victor Ujeck, who lives across the street from the family’s home. “Very nice people.”“I would never imagine he could have done this,” Mr. Ujeck said. “I was shocked.”Law enforcement officials were initially investigating whether Mr. Comello had a romantic interest in a female relative of Mr. Cali’s.In an early conversation with detectives, Mr. Comello said Mr. Cali had told him to stay away from a young woman in the Cali family, the police said. Yet neighbors and friends did not recall hearing about a girlfriend or a love interest.Despite his drug use and intermittent scuffles, Mr. Comello had no serious run-ins with the law before this year. Whatever his criminal inclinations, they escalated from bland to bizarre in February, when United States Marshals kicked him out of a Manhattan federal courthouse. Mr. Comello had entered the building and demanded a citizen’s arrest of local and national political figures, including Mr. de Blasio and the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi.The stunt was noticed by the city police and the marshals, who law enforcement officials say put out a bulletin alerting other city institutions to watch for Mr. Comello. The following day, he was seen at the mayor’s residence, Gracie Mansion, where officers recognized him. Mr. Comello left the property before the situation escalated, but spoke briefly with officers.“These were rambling statements,” said John Miller, the chief of the New York Police Department’s intelligence division. "He wanted to make a citizen’s arrest of Maxine Waters, Congressman Schiff. He blamed Nancy Pelosi and all kinds of other people for stealing the election.”The motivation for Mr. Comello’s February stunt became clearer Monday, when he was arraigned in a New Jersey court. As he entered the courtroom, he raised his open palm, where he had scrawled the letter Q and several phrases associated with the QAnon conspiracy theory.That baseless theory suggests, among other things, the United States government is run by pedophiles and President Trump will overthrow them. It encourages followers not to trust career politicians, particularly Democratic ones.Mr. Comello’s lawyer, Robert Gottlieb, said the young man became fascinated with QAnon and other far-right internet narratives involving Mr. Trump. Friends and family, Mr. Gottlieb said, described a noticeable and recent shift in Mr. Comello’s personality as he fell deeper into digital rabbit holes.[What is QAnon? Explaining the internet conspiracy theory.]In the days since Mr. Comello’s arrest, his family has all but gone underground. Attempts to reach his parents were unsuccessful; a neighbor said Wednesday that he had seen the family packing bags and leaving their Eltingville home, and thought they had moved out. At Mr. Comello’s older brother’s home, a man said the family did not want to talk. At a separate address listed for an apparent relative, a man told a reporter to “take a walk.”Mr. Cali’s murder was not the Comello family’s first brush with the law. Mr. Comello’s older brother, Alfonso, is currently facing felony assault and burglary charges in Richmond County for an incident in Staten Island last September, charges that he denies and is fighting.According to a criminal complaint, Alfonso Comello entered the home of a woman he knew on Sept. 25 with an accomplice and beat the woman’s face with the handle of a knife. The beating was violent enough to knock out several of the woman’s teeth.The woman, whose name was redacted in court papers, was tied to a bed as Alfonso Comello rummaged through drawers and demanded money. He has pleaded not guilty. His lawyer, Arthur Louis Aidala, said Alfonso Comello categorically denied the charges.Missing from the Comello family troubles, however, is any obvious connection to Mr. Cali.According to the police, Anthony Comello entered Mr. Cali’s neighborhood late on March 13 and backed his blue pickup truck into Mr. Cali’s Cadillac Escalade, knocking off the S.U.V.’s license plate.He rang Mr. Cali’s doorbell and the two walked outside and exchanged words, according to surveillance video obtained by the police. Mr. Comello picked up the Escalade’s license plate, and handed it to Mr. Cali. Then he allegedly pulled a pistol and opened fire and fired 12 shots, hitting Mr. Cali 10 times. He drove away in his pickup.Mr. Comello’s fingerprints were found on the license plate, the police said.“Something went very wrong here,” Mr. Gottlieb said.An earlier version of this article misidentified the origin of the QAnon conspiracy theory. It was born on the 4chan message board, not on Reddit.Reporting was contributed by Ali Winston, Nate Schweber, Laura Dimon and Sean Piccoli.Advertisement