AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse GreenSome plays are seeds and some are stones.Seeds are the ones that grow and change over the course of their stage time — and maybe, in the minds of those who see them, forever.Stones are the ones that always remain exactly what they are. They never expand but can still knock you out.“Accidentally Brave,” which opened on Monday, is a stone. Not just for us but also for its author, Maddie Corman, giving a riveting performance, mostly as herself. The real-life situation she has endured over the past four years, and replays eight times a week at the DR2 Theater, still hangs on her heart. It may always.Or as she puts it with ingratiating humor: “Just before we start this journey — oh my God, I hate the word ‘journey’ — O.K., before we start this ‘thing,’ I should let you know I am not O.K.”[Read about Maddie Corman and the history of “Accidentally Brave.”]The “thing” began, as far as Ms. Corman knew, in the summer of 2015. Driving to a television soundstage in Brooklyn at 5 a.m. to tape an episode of “a semi-terrible TV show,” she received a frantic call from her home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. While in the background her 11-year-old twin boys cry, her 16-year-old daughter shrieks in terror. Police are there and are “taking Dad’s computer.”Dad was, and is, Jace Alexander, a director known for his work on “Law & Order.” As BuzzFeed reported, investigators who entered the couple’s house that day recovered files from Mr. Alexander’s devices “that showed minors engaged in sexual acts.”What happens when your husband of 17 years, your “best person,” your “friend and confidant and true-blue love” — not to mention your children’s father, who sings songs at the piano and listens to NPR — turns out to be a compulsive consumer of child pornography?“Accidentally Brave” recounts Ms. Corman’s shame and confusion as every prop beneath her warm, stable, suburban life gets knocked out. Nor does the emotional chaos end after Mr. Alexander completes a 45-day rehab for sex addiction and is sentenced, in 2016, to 10 years’ probation. Though he was never accused of touching any child inappropriately, he must also register as a sex offender.As the family transfers the twins to a new school, then relocates to a new neighborhood, all the while forced to forgo ordinary pleasures like coaching youth soccer and inviting children to trick-or-treat at their house, Ms. Corman tries to understand how the disaster happened and how she can survive it.“Accidentally Brave” does not offer answers. For one thing, Ms. Corman provides few details about Mr. Alexander. What happened to him is “not my story to tell,” she says. And though she breaks her rule just enough to suggest the existence of explanatory events that “happened” in his youth, she does not in any way attempt to inhabit him the way she inhabits herself, her children and her friends, both stalwart and fair-weather. She never even mentions his name.Given her skill at investing stage characters with palpable humanity — her daughter’s scream is both bloodcurdling and heartbreaking — this denial feels like an especially powerful expression of anger. And yet the real twist in the tale (though it’s not a spoiler) is that she and Mr. Alexander remain married, and have in some ways improved their relationship through the restart forced upon them.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]That’s a development that might have been easier to understand had it been dramatized, in scenes that did not quarantine important parts of the story and that inched toward resolution in real time. I wanted to see, rather than just hear as an anecdote, how Ms. Corman came to understand her husband as someone who isn’t evil but unwell, poisoned by pornography. And how she came to stand by him, as her wedding vows promised, in sickness, not just in health.Ms. Corman, a professional actor since her teens — and herself the victim of sexual harassment at a young age — could certainly have performed such a script. With her nanosecond timing, she has nailed tricky ensemble scenes as both a sophisticated sidekick (in “Next Fall”) and an artless matron (in “The Babylon Line”), among many others.Here, though, the form forces her to create an illusion of drama through a kind of solo montage. Several customized bravura sequences show her toggling with daredevil facility among various characters and moods. She smash-cuts from devastation to furor to false calm as if road testing them to see which is most useful.Though you can’t help responding to the intensity of these acting moments, there is something slick about “Accidentally Brave” that comes with the confessional monologue genre. Ms. Corman may hate the word “journeys” but her script is not free of self-help jargon. More than once she offers the de rigueur (yet unnecessary) excuse that in telling her story she hopes “to be of service.”The production, directed by Kristin Hanggi, seems to take its cue from the same idea, couching despair in a pastel atmosphere of hope. The projections (by Elaine J. McCarthy) and original music (by Claire Wellin) suggest a special episode of “Oprah.” There is even an Oprah-like character — a “very amazing and very famous” person identified only as Angel — who blows into the story from time to time to offer support and advice.I don’t know how many people have connections to Angels. Nor do I know how many could afford the deluxe Arizona rehab that helped Ms. Corman’s husband. “Accidentally Brave” nevertheless contends at every turn that families can survive psychological devastation and reformulate themselves on a more solid if somber basis.It’s nice to think so — and for people enduring such trauma, that’s undoubtedly, yes, a service.But the monologue form being what it is, Ms. Corman’s performance is more convincing with the negatives than with the positives. Is that because — even absent disaster — life is, too?“Accidentally Brave” can’t help you there.This information was last updated on March 26, 2019Follow Jesse Green on Twitter: @JesseKGreen.Advertisement