AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Matt StevensGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)This year the best college basketball team from California is not U.C.L.A.; it is not Stanford, or San Diego State.No, this year, the best college basketball team from California might just be the University of California, Irvine.Yes, you read that right. The Anteaters. (Zot! Zot! Zot!)“We’re one of the top teams on the West Coast, and we have proven we’re probably the best team in California,” Ryan Badrtalei, an assistant coach at U.C. Irvine, said in a telephone interview on Monday.Of course, claims like these are hotly debated at this time of year. But on Sunday, the N.C.A.A. selection committee announced the 68 teams that will play in the Division I men’s basketball tournament, and only two of them were from California: U.C. Irvine and Saint Mary’s, which earned its bid by winning the West Coast Conference tournament.Badrtalei certainly has a case. U.C. Irvine beat Saint Mary’s this season on its way to a 30-5 record, good enough to earn the team a No. 13 seed in the South Region of the N.C.A.A. tournament. U.C. Irvine will play Kansas State on Friday in San Jose.The No. 13 seed means the Anteaters are an underdog in that game. But the team has also been a trendy upset pick among experts, some of whom think the team could make something of a Cinderella run.“The Anteaters are a terrible draw for Kansas State, and their upset odds are two times better than you would expect for a typical No. 13 seed,” The Washington Post’s Neil Greenberg wrote Sunday after the bracket was unveiled. Badrtalei said this year’s team features several upperclassmen who have helped them beat squads like Texas A&M and Saint Mary’s on the road — wins that give the Anteaters confidence that they can hang with stiff competition.Veteran players like Jonathan Galloway, who is a first team all-conference selection, has helped anchor the Anteaters defensively. The team prides itself on rebounding well and being a “a real stubborn defensive team,” Badrtalei said, adding that Kansas State plays a similar style.“We’re going to have to go out and play really well,” Badrtalei said of Friday’s matchup. “But these guys know their roles. They know what they’re doing. We purposely recruit guys who have a chip on their shoulders. We like that. We like being in the position where we have to perform.”So can they pull off the upset?Said Badrtalei: “There’s not a question in our minds.”(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• Kevin Tsujihara, the chief executive of Warner Bros. studios division, has stepped down after accusations surfaced that he had pushed for a woman with whom he had a sexual relationship to be considered for roles in the company. [The New York Times]• The Pentagon has provided Congress with a list of more than 400 military construction projects around the globe that it could raid to help pay for President Trump’s long-promised wall at the southwest border. The list includes dozens of projects in California, such as electrical upgrades at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton and airfield maintenance at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. [The Los Angeles Times]• The mother of a 5-year-old girl who slipped off a rock on the edge of the Stanislaus River, fell in and was swept away is asking for help as the search for her daughter continues. [The Modesto Bee]• A lawyer for the many people arrested in East Sacramento’s Stephon Clark protests this month is laying the groundwork for a federal civil rights lawsuit against the city, county and the police. [The Sacramento Bee]• Representative Devin Nunes has sued Twitter and three users for defamation, claiming that the users smeared him and that the platform allowed it to happen because of a political agenda. [The New York Times]• Five of the 10 most destructive fires in California since 2015 have been linked to Pacific Gas & Electric’s electrical network. We published a story and interactive on the utility’s safety culture and the risks it overlooked. [The New York Times]• California is awash in cannabis cash from inside and out of the state. And in the more than two years since California voters approved the licensed growing and sale of recreational marijuana, the state has seen a half-dozen government corruption cases as black-market operators try to game the system. [The Los Angeles Times]• For the last year, the Office of the Inspector General at the Los Angeles Unified School District has been roiled by internal controversy of its own. An investigation reveals new details about the turmoil. [KPCC/LAist]• The Department of Energy has disclosed details about one of the most expensive computers being built: a $500 million supercomputer called Aurora that may become crucial in a high-stakes technology race between the United States and China. [The New York Times]• Lyft officially signaled that it seeks to have the biggest technology initial public offering since 2014. The ride-hailing company said that it hoped to be valued at up to $23 billion when it lists on the stock market as soon as next week. [The New York Times]• Levi Strauss & Company is also expected to start trading on the public markets. The maker of denim and Dockers is expected do so on Thursday for what will be the second time in its 165-year history. [The New York Times]• The mayor of San Francisco endorsed a call by civic groups for Major League Baseball to impose a serious penalty on the chief executive of the San Francisco Giants. The executive, Larry Baer, got into a public altercation with his wife that was caught on video this month. [The New York Times]• The regular season will start at the Tokyo Dome for the fifth time on Wednesday, and once again, the Oakland A’s will be there. They are hoping to stage a revival of 2012, when their visit to Japan began an improbable run to a division title. [The New York Times]Yabba Dabba DON’T!(O.K. Bad joke. We’re sorry.)The distinctive property known as the Flintstone House might be fun to look at from the freeway, but officials in the town of Hillsborough and some residents there find the residence — with its curving lines, red and purple domes, and multicolored mushrooms — to be more of an eyesore.Now, the town has sued the home’s owner, the retired media mogul Florence Fang, alleging that she did not secure the proper permits and approvals to add items and landscaping like oversize dinosaur statues, a retaining wall and a sign reading “Yabba Dabba Doo.”You can read our story about the house and the lawsuit here.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement