AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Alexandra Leigh Young and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa TobinThe prime minister took swift action against the weapons used for a massacre at two mosques in Christchurch.Friday, March 22nd, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The prime minister of New Zealand promised to change the country’s gun laws after a mass shooting last Friday. Less than a week later, she actually did it. It’s Friday, March 22. Jamie, in the immediate aftermath of the mosque attacks in New Zealand, what was the response from the country’s prime minister?jamie tarabayJacinda Ardern came out and had a very sort of hastily arranged press briefing.archived recordingSorry, let’s go straight to the prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, speaking now.jamie tarabayAnd her first words were a complete and utter denouncement of what had happened.archived recording (jacinda ardern)There is no place in New Zealand for such acts of extreme and unprecedented violence, which it is clear this act was.jamie tarabayShe was very striking.archived recording (jacinda ardern)Many of those who will have been directly affected by this shooting may be migrants to New Zealand. They may even be refugees here. They have chosen to make New Zealand their home, and it is their home.jamie tarabayShe said, “They are us.”archived recording (jacinda ardern)They are us. The person who has perpetuated this violence against us is not.jamie tarabayWe reject everything about this sort of person. He is not one of us. The people who are part of our community, who have moved to this country, who have made lives here, these are the people who are part of New Zealand.michael barbaroJamie Tarabay just returned from reporting in New Zealand.jamie tarabaySo it was a really strong statement right from the beginning.michael barbaroAnd what does she do next?jamie tarabayOne of the first things she does is she gets on a plane and goes to Christchurch. And at this point, all the domestic flights are grounded because in New Zealand you don’t need to go through security checks to fly domestically. You actually just walk straight onto the plane.michael barbaroI didn’t know that.jamie tarabaySo she took a government plane and flew in. She arrived on the scene in Christchurch. She went to a college campus that had been used as the sort of meeting point for the families and friends. And, you know, I saw her walk in, and she had a black headscarf on.michael barbaroWhat did that signal to you?jamie tarabayIt told me that she’s culturally attuned, and she recognized that these were people in prayer, and this terrible thing happened to them and their families. You know, you got to understand, at this point, a lot of the people in that space still hadn’t heard what had happened to their loved ones.archived recording[SINGING]jamie tarabayI met a 17-year-old boy there who kept on calling his dad’s phone, and it kept on going to voicemail.michael barbaroAnd this is the day after —jamie tarabayThis is the day after. And he said to me that if he hadn’t been told that his father was at hospital, then he could assume that he was dead. And so you have people in this state of anxiety and stress and grief, and she walked into this situation and she just sort of said to the leaders who had gathered there, my time is yours. What do you want me to do? And they said to her, we want you to meet the families. And she did. She hugged people. She hugged men and women — men who were dressed quite conservatively.archived recording (jacinda ardern)Assalamu alaikum.jamie tarabayShe began her words with “Assalamu alaikum,” which is Arabic for peace be upon you, which is the standard Muslim greeting as well.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I’m here today to bring with me the grief of all of New Zealand, and there is huge grief in this nation. And I’m here also to stand alongside you.jamie tarabayAnd she was just there. She was very present and she was connecting with all of these people emotionally. It was very moving to watch, and you could see that it had impacted her as well.archived recording (jacinda ardern)And so we feel deeply in our hearts what has happened to you. We feel grief. We feel injustice. We feel anger. And we share that with you.michael barbaroWas any of this surprising to you, the way that she’s approaching this horrible event in the first hours or so after?jamie tarabayI think for anyone who has watched her, this is not a surprise at all. She came into politics this way. She is progressive. She’s young. She refused to answer questions about whether she would have a child in office because she said, you wouldn’t be asking men those questions. And then, of course, later on she did have a child in office — announced a tax package live from her couch while holding her 10-day-old baby.archived recording (jacinda ardern)So I just wanted to share a few thoughts on that from the comfort of the couch, sitting with little Neve here with me.jamie tarabayTook her 3-month-old at the time to the U.N., you know, just really sort of international darling because she’s always sort of appeared to be a human being first and a politician second. So given her really remarkable display of grief and sympathy over the weekend, that part of her personality was not unexpected. What happened afterwards was.archived recording (jacinda ardern)I want to speak specifically about the firearms used in this terrorist act.jamie tarabayThat by the end of the weekend —archived recording (jacinda ardern)I can tell you one thing right now. Our gun laws will change.jamie tarabay— she had said that gun laws in New Zealand were going to change.michael barbaroAnd she said, they’re going to change, not I am going to propose that they change.jamie tarabayIt was unequivocal. There was no dispute about what she said, and that was what was most surprising.archived recording (jacinda ardern)There have been attempts to change our laws in 2005, 2012, and after an inquiry in 2017. Now is the time for change.michael barbaroWhat did you think of that? I remember hearing her say that and thinking, sure you will, and being quite skeptical.jamie tarabayRight. I mean, it’s not something that you imagine that would happen so quickly. And she doesn’t have a major majority in her government. So she was finishing the weekend —archived recording[SINGING]jamie tarabay— this weekend of grief —archived recording[SINGING]jamie tarabay— you know, candlelight vigils. And people from around the country came to Christchurch to show their sympathy and their support for the Muslim community. Then to have her say the gun laws are going to change before she’s even met with her cabinet, it was really, really striking.archived recording[SINGING]michael barbaroSo how does she go about trying to actually do this?jamie tarabayI think that she had a lot of momentum. I think that she wanted to act quickly. And for her, in New Zealand, they had a template very close by.archived recordingGood morning. On the island of Tasmania, the worst massacre in Australian history is finally over. At least 34 people were killed and four others critically wounded when a 29-year-old gunman with a history of mental problems opened fire on a popular tourist area. The carnage came to an end only this morning after the gunman caught fire following a 12-hour standoff with police. He’s alive and in custody today Monday, April the 29th, 1996.jamie tarabayWe had a conservative government in charge at the time.archived recordingThe prime minister John Howard tonight detailed sweeping plans to reform Australia’s national gun laws, which could mean the introduction of a one-off tax to buy back illegal weapons. In the wake of Port Arthur, Mr. Howard has also promised to consider new restrictions on violent videos and computer games.jamie tarabayWhich normally wouldn’t be so quick to move on things like this.archived recording (john howard)I thought to myself, if I don’t use the authority of this newly acquired office to do something, the Australian people are entitled to think, well, this bloke’s not up to much.jamie tarabayAnd so when you have that political will, when you have that support from the people in charge, despite the fact that there was a very vocal gun lobby in Australia, they managed to push through the bans on all these weapons and implement a buyback and a gun amnesty.archived recording (john howard)People used to say to me, you’ve violated my human rights by taking away my gun. But I tell the guy, I understand that, but will you please understand the argument — the greatest human right of all is to live a safe life without fear of random murder.jamie tarabayAnd it worked.archived recording (john howard)It is incontestable that gun-related homicides have fallen quite significantly in Australia. Incontestable. I mean, if you had 13 mass shootings before Port Arthur and you had none since, isn’t that evidence? Or are we expected to believe that that was all magically going to happen?jamie tarabayThere hasn’t been any kind of mass shooting like that in Australia since. So it was something that was feasible and successful.archived recording (jacinda ardern)On 15 March, the nation witnessed a terrorist attack that demonstrated the weakness of New Zealand’s gun laws.michael barbaroSo how does this week end for the prime minister?jamie tarabaySo she’d spent the week mourning publicly, but also behind doors talking, consulting with her cabinet. She’s also reaching out to the opposition. She wants to make sure that this is a unified effort. She wants to make sure that everyone’s feeling included. And beyond that, it’s also a question about national unity as well.archived recording (jacinda ardern)The time for the mass and easy availability of these weapons must end.jamie tarabayAnd, you know, by Thursday, she came out and she declared —archived recording (jacinda ardern)And today, they will.jamie tarabay— that her government has banned all the different kinds of weapons that were used in that attack.archived recording (jacinda ardern)Today I’m announcing that New Zealand will ban all military-style semiautomatic weapons. We will also ban all assault rifles. We will ban all high-capacity magazines. We will ban all parts with the ability to convert semiautomatic or any other type of firearm into a military-style semiautomatic weapon. In short, every semiautomatic weapon used in the terrorist attack on Friday will be banned in this country.jamie tarabayAnd there was going to be a buyback for everyone who has those weapons already. So, you know, people who spent over $1,000 on an AR-15 that they use at the range, they have to turn it in and they’ll be given money. It’s going to cost the New Zealand government about $140 million to pay for it, but they’ve literally decided all of these things within the space of two or three days.michael barbaroRight. In six days — actually, a little bit less than six days — after a mass shooting, the prime minister of New Zealand has fundamentally changed the country’s gun laws — banned certain weapons, restricted access to others. I mean, that’s staggering.jamie tarabayIt’s huge.michael barbaroJamie, what explains how this unfolded — how quickly it unfolded — in New Zealand in the aftermath of a mass shooting compared with how it usually happens in a place like the U.S. after a mass shooting here?jamie tarabayWell, I think one of the first things that you have to look at is the gun culture within both of those countries. In New Zealand, you are very heavily regulated. If you want to apply for a license, you have to have background checks. You have to show that you are mentally fit to have one. You have to have two references. And those references get interviewed, your partner or your family member gets interviewed.michael barbaroTwo references as in people have to write —jamie tarabayPeople have to stand up for you, and then they get interviewed. So they need to show why they support you getting a license.michael barbaroThat’s fascinating.jamie tarabayAnd then, for the particular gun that you want, you then also have to get a license for that particular weapon. And then if you get a traffic violation, if the police get called to your house, that all goes into the database, and if the police feel that you’re coming to their attention a bit too much, they’ll come in and they’ll check in on you.michael barbaroSo this is a heavily regulated gun culture.jamie tarabayThis is a country where you have to prove that you are able to have a weapon, and that you deserve to have one. You are responsible enough to have one.michael barbaroAnd of course in the U.S. we have the Second Amendment, which has created a legal sense that gun ownership is a natural-born right. It’s something that you just possess as an American.jamie tarabayRight. And in some states in America, you can carry your weapon on you. That would be unheard of in New Zealand. You are only allowed to take your weapon when you’re firing it on the range, or if you’re sort of doing a cull of animals on your farm or something, or you’re hunting. So there is very specific places you can use your weapon. There is a significant number of gun owners in New Zealand. There’s about 250,000 in a population of five million. But by and large, it’s not an assault rifle culture. It’s more of a sportsmanship shooting, precision target competition. Actually, New Zealand hosted the world shooting championship earlier this year.michael barbaroSo the notion of kind of self-defense, owning a gun to use it against a criminal, that’s not the culture?jamie tarabayNo. The rate of homicides in New Zealand, especially by guns, is very low. And it’s — yeah, it is definitely more of, we have guns for sport rather than guns for self-defense.michael barbaroDoes New Zealand have an N.R.A.-type of lobby and political power?jamie tarabayIt has people who are pro-guns, obviously. There are people who run blogs that are somewhat influential. But the degree to which the N.R.A. in the United States operates and lobbies, there’s just nothing like that in New Zealand. The head of the N.R.A. in New Zealand —michael barbaroOh, so there is an N.R.A. in New Zealand.jamie tarabayThere is an N.R.A. in New Zealand. It’s completely different. Actually, last year they were considering changing their name because they didn’t want the association.michael barbaroWhat did they find that the U.S. N.R.A. is too much of for them?jamie tarabayThere’s a couple of different things. They thought the N.R.A. in the U.S. was extremely political, but they also said that the N.R.A. in America embraces all the different rifles, et cetera, whereas they were just concerned with 1,000-yard shooting, precision target rifles. They didn’t do military rifles. They don’t do assault rifles. And they just thought that that was a very clear difference between them and the United States. A really important point that the head of the N.R.A. in New Zealand told me is that gun ownership in New Zealand is a privilege. It is not a right. It’s something that the government allows you to have if you pass through these rigorous checks. So it’s not actually within the gun culture in New Zealand to sort of rail against the idea that those guns would be taken away. [MUSIC]michael barbaroWhat you’re describing is a state of national horror after a massacre in New Zealand that galvanized the entire country to change their gun laws. And to an American, that still feels kind of unfathomable and impractical because we have had so many of these mass shootings and massacres, and they don’t end up unifying people. It ends up doing the opposite. In fact, it ends up polarizing the country.jamie tarabaySo I think that one of the things that strikes Australians and New Zealanders whenever there is a mass shooting in America is how can this still be going on? And in the sense that Australia was quick to achieve consensus, New Zealand was quick to achieve consensus, and then the United States consensus is so far out of reach. You cannot have unity around gun culture and gun control if you don’t have unity within the community. New Zealand is a very inclusive society. It’s used to people coming from different countries and assimilating and making lives there. These are people who are New Zealanders first. And so when Jacinda Ardern said, these people are us, they are us, she included everyone altogether in this.michael barbaroRight. The immigrants, Muslims —jamie tarabayEveryone. It shocked everyone. So she had the political will. She had the politicians, the opposition, on board. She had the people supporting her. Even gun owners —michael barbaroGun owners supported the decision to take away their guns.jamie tarabayEven gun retailers and hunting groups and fishing groups agreed that this was something that needed to be done.archived recording (jacinda ardern)Finally, I want to repeat a message I have consistently shared since announcing our laws would change. We do have guns in New Zealand that are used for legitimate purposes by responsible owners. I’ve been steadfast in my belief that the vast majority of these owners will support what we are doing here today because it’s about all of us, it’s in the national interest, and it’s about safety. I will work hard to retain that support as we work on the remaining tranches of reform that we must make to prevent an act of terror happening in our country ever again.michael barbaroJamie, thank you very much. We really appreciate it.jamie tarabayThank you for having me.[music]Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherPrime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand promised to change the country’s gun laws after a mass shooting in Christchurch left 50 people dead. Less than a week later, she did it.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Jamie Tarabay, a New York Times correspondent based in Australia who has been reporting in New Zealand.Background reading:In announcing the gun policy changes, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said her goal was to eliminate from New Zealand the weapons used in the mosque attacks in Christchurch last week. Her proposal is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament.They share a name, and both espouse a love of guns, but beyond that, the National Rifle Association in New Zealand has little in common with America’s most powerful gun advocacy group. Mass shootings have also had a mobilizing effect in Australia, Britain, Canada and Germany. The Times also looked at what it takes to buy a gun in 16 countries.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Jamie Tarabay contributed reporting.“How New Zealand Banned Assault Rifles in Six Days” was produced by Theo Balcomb, Alexandra Leigh Young and Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Advertisement