AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkIf you read our Current Events Conversation regularly, you know that one thing we love to see is students talking to each other in the comments section. It’s an excellent way to practice your civil discourse skills, learn about people who are different from you and connect with other teenagers from all over the world.We want to highlight some of the ways students respectfully and productively engaged with each other on our site this week. If you’re looking to spark a conversation with your fellow commenters, here are a few ideas to get you started:• Respectfully reply to comments you disagree with, offering more evidence, a different perspective or a counterpoint, like Justin Pfeifer from Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C., did on our Student Opinion question, “Should the U.S. Ban Military-Style Semiautomatic Weapons?” and Benea Quintero from Arizona did on “Do You Have Satisfying Friendships?”• Ask questions to push the conversation further, like sowda mohamed from Minnesota did on our question, “Should We Abolish the Death Penalty?”• Leave a note on the comments that speak to you and tell the writer why, like Kate Schaefers from Minnesota and Kara from Hawaii did on our prompt, “What Legacy Do You Want to Leave Behind?”• Or, simply hit the “Recommend” button to let others know you liked what they had to say, like many did on our Picture Prompt “$430 Million Deal.”Students, what else can you add to the conversation? We’d love to see more of you talking to your fellow commenters. We’ll keep a look out for it this week and we might even call you out in next week’s Current Events Conversation.And, before we go, welcome to new classes from: Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Minnesota; and Point Pleasant Borough High School, N.J.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear as they were originally submitted.__________In “Want to Leave a Legacy? Be a Mentor,” Jane E. Brody writes that making a positive impact in the lives of others is a surefire way to be remembered after one’s physical life ends — more so than leaving behind money, structures or other objects. In our related Student Opinion question, we asked whether students agreed with Ms. Brody and what legacy they want to leave in the world.We were struck by the thoughtfulness and range of responses we received. While many wrote that, like Ms. Brody, they hoped to be a positive presence in the lives of loved ones and strangers, others wrote about leaving a legacy through meaningful work, lasting ideas, tangible things, community service and just being themselves.Living on in the memories and lives of othersWhen I think of leaving a mark on the world, a legacy, I think of doing the small things. Holding open the door for someone, picking up a dropped pencil, or just smiling at someone passing by. Yes, most of these things are not life altering and jaw dropping acts, however I hope that these little things can change someones life, even for a few seconds. I’m not looking to be remembered by thousands, or even hundreds. I just hope that I am able to share the kindness that others have shown me through my actions and words.— Abby Bowker, Hoggard High School, Wilmington NCBeing a sophomore in high school we are not only being asked, “ What do you want to be when you grow up,” but we are also being asked, “How are you going to make a difference in this world?” I am constantly changing my mind about what I want to do in the world and what I want to leave behind. When I think about my future I think about having kids and being a mom. Not only will care and love them but I want them to look up to me. Although it would be cool to be famous or have some type of revolutionary invention, that is not what I value most. I want to have a stable family and be able to provide for the people I love.— Caroline Dixon, Hoggard Highschool Wilmington, NCOne of my fears is to have existed and not have a record of my existence. If only one person would keep me in their heart and mind, then i have succeeded as being someone worth remembering.— Nyleah F., Providence, Rhode IslandMaking a lasting impact through meaningful workWhen I am older, the job I want to pursue is neonatal nursing. I want my part of my impact on the world to be helping premature babies recover and get healthy. My goal is to help hundreds of babies leave the hospital and go home healthy.— Gules P, North Hunterdon High SchoolMy legacy is to bring positivity into people’s lives. I am not in the music making for money, or fame, because the money and fame does not last forever, but the music and positivity will live on with people to remember the way I could have changed there life, or I could have helped them out of a problem. I want to know that I did something big and I touched many people’s lives.— Kaiden Forbes, Oxford Middle SchoolI want to be remembered as a leader. Being a leader is the most important aspect of my life and going down in history as one would be an acceptable legacy. Legacy tends to never be the actions of one man, but rather the actions that causes others to join the cause … Leadership is my outlet for helping others because it goes beyond inspiring someone to do something; it actually help them achieve their goal.— Liam S, NJWhen I grow up I want to be a pediatrician, so it would only make sense that I would want to help others and be remembered as such. I want people to see me as someone who helps them achieve their dreams, or helps to make them feel better.— Adenike A, North Hunterdon HighschoolI hope that I can pursue a career as a film director and create films that earn their legacy by entertaining, provoking, and enriching viewers.— Dylan Itkin, Providence, RIObjects with special meaningThe idea of legacy has been on my mind ever since I was little, when my father passed away. Growing up, there were times when I felt lost, realizing all the connections I should have had with him that I didn’t. I don’t have any memories with him, only stories of him told to me by my grandmother. I felt I had no way to cherish his memory and keep him living on. His death made me wonder about legacy itself. What had he left on this earth?To me, his life had been snuffed out too quickly; he had left nothing behind but his family. If only my family and a few close friends knew him, what would happen to his legacy when we are all gone? This is when I believe stories of good deeds don’t cut it when attempting to make a personal connection. Whenever I find something new of my father’s, whether it’s a Swiss Army knife, a voltmeter, or tons of records from one of my favorite bands, The Beatles, I learn something more about him, something that just couldn’t be told in a story from my grandmother.At times, the things you leave behind can be a better legacy than stories of the good days of your time on Earth. Although I know my father was a good man, these stories aren’t what help me keep his memory alive. There are times when just putting on a Beatles song makes me feel entirely more connected. After all, like Erik Erikson said, “I am what survives me,” and at the end of the day, a Swiss Army knife’s steel will survive longer than the spoken word.— Michelle Lamas, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCI believe that the impact someone has on others far outways the amount of money they have to their name. However, money can be an aid in helping others. For example, Bill Gates is not just known for his riches, but for the philanthropic work he does with those riches. He uses his wealth as a tool to help others, and his legacy will reflect that.Therefore, money is irrelevant to a legacy if that money is kept to oneself. I believe it works the other way as well.— Jack H, North Hunterdon High SchoolBeing remembered for being yourselfI guess, overall, I just want people to remember me as “an okay human being who lived the life she wanted”. I don’t feel the need to have a grand legacy, simple is just fine if it means I lived my life happily and on my own terms.— Avery Galloway, Hoggard High school, Wilmington, NC@Avery Galloway I love how you framed legacy as “an okay human being who lived the life she wanted.” I think legacy is about living each day living out your values. Being a good person, being kind, patient with others … all of these create a lived legacy. And the life she wanted - that is important too. Live your own life, follow your own dreams, be the person you want to be. That is a legacy.— Kate Schaefers, MinnesotaThe best legacy anyone could leave behind is that they were true to their own self. So stop doing things you don’t want to just for your legacy. Stop doing things that you hope will make a good impression on someone. Just go out and live your life the way you want to live it That way when you do pass away everyone will remember you for the person that lived the way they wanted to. That lived happily because they weren’t constantly trying to please others.— JP Kelter, MAThe people who have inspired us to leave a legacy of our ownSome people have been really inspiring to me just by being themselves. I don’t think one necessarily has to try to make an impact on someone else. I’ve always looked up to my karate sensei because he is really smart and teaches important values to his students. Even his sensei, who I never met before he died, has left an imprint on so many people, including me. My sensei once quoted something he heard him say: “Get up. Dress up. Show up.” … I don’t aspire to be remembered as great, or even remembered at all. But I’d be glad to make give someone strength, just by being me.— Serena, Walla WallaMy great grandpa’s name was Jacob Gartner … Though I was young, he used to give me advice whenever he can and I still remember most of what he said. “Always fight for what you believe in,” that’s what he did. “Put the work in now, it will pay off later” was another one. I know you can hear this anywhere but when it came from him, it truly meant something to me. He had so many of these it could fill a book.This is the kind of legacy I want to leave behind. I want to leave this earth knowing that I have somehow impacted the generation below me. That they will become a better person because of something I had said or done, direct or indirect. I want to make an impact so they can do the same.— Ethan Fedor, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCYes, I agree with that leaving a positive impact on people is more memorable than tangible objects. I believe this because your positive impact can last for generations and generations and when people hear your name it will put a smile on their face … For Example Martin Luther King jr. left a positive impact on the world by preaching that blacks and whites should come together … The effect and message he preached left a long lasting effect on everybody and it will continue to have an effect on people for generations to come. I believe that is worth more than leaving behind money or a house.— Dylan C, North Hunterdon High SchoolIn The Snows of Kilimanjaro, our main character Harry left nothing behind. He had many stories and intended to make an impact, but never got around to do it. He was left with no legacy, no children, nothing to keep his name alive. This idea to me inspires me to create something that will outlive me. It could be a book, a piece of art, or even wisdom passed down from my family to the next.— MP, New JerseyI had a person in my life who left an impact on me when I was young. Her name was Ms. Dee and she was a volunteer at my local library … I was so infatuated with the stories she told me and how kind she was to me, but the most important thing that she did was help me gain more confidence in myself and show me how much potential I have. Without her I would not be confident in myself or know my own self worth. Just like her, I want to help someone see the full potential they have and help them grow into a better person, just like Ms.Dee did to me because it is important to “focus on being there” for the next generation after us.— Lola Adebayo, Providence, RI__________We were super inspired by these photos of the March 15 youth climate strikes around the world, so we used one in our Picture Prompt “Student Climate Strikes.”The teenagers on our site were just as moved. “I have never really been big in the climate change movement but after reading this article I am really encouraged to join the movement. I am very proud of our world for all the people that missed work and school and protest for this,” Julian Atacan from Masterman: Philadelphia wrote.We asked students what other issues in their communities or the world they thought deserved more attention. Here’s what they had to say:Climate changeI think that climate change and clean air is the most important issue to be focusing on. Even if we solve homelessness, and things like world hunger, it won’t matter in the grand scheme of things if we cannot preserve the planet and we won’t have a planet to live on. If I were to fight for any issue, it would probably be climate change. I am glad that these kids are fighting for the planet, and their place to live. It matters to me because if we can’t make a change in the way we are going about things, the human race will be extinct before we know it. Anything that can contribute to saving the planet is something we should try to implement into our everyday lives. Recycling, cutting down on plastic, and not buying Carbon Dioxide products are examples of steps we can take to help save our planet.— Arjun Ahya, Masterman School, Philadelphia PAEducationEducation is an issue that is often overlooked, but by giving more people access to a quality education, more people can contribute to the solutions for other problems. Through education, women’s rights, environmental protection, family planning, equality, and economic stability can be advanced. We need to reorder our priorities and implement widespread education in all parts of the world.— Emma Johnson, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, NCPolice brutalityI feel as though an issue in my community that normally gets overlooked is police brutality. I see everywhere over social media about people getting racially profiled for absolutely no reason and there is no justice for them. Sometimes the police officers get away with it and still get to keep their jobs and still do the same shady work. This just gets overlooked and the only times people get outraged, the most that happens to the officer is that they get suspended or kicked from the force but that won’t bring justice to the family that is mourning the loss of their sibling or children that got their life taking because of an “accident” that just so happens to occur from time to time. And most of the time, it’s the same exact story! I’m not saying that all cops are bad and untrustworthy, because not all cops are bad, I am just saying we need to bring justice to the cops that take an innocent life or racially profile someone for no reason. That is an issue that I would most likely take a stand for.— Abdoul Diallo, Julia R. Masterman, PhiladelphiaMen’s issuesPerhaps one of the most important issues, at least I believe it to be, is seen as almost taboo to talk about. I’m referring to men’s issues … Why can’t we talk about the higher suicide rate of men? Why can’t we talk about the lower life expectancy of men? Why can’t we talk about the harsher prison sentences, and unfair treatment in court for men? Why can’t we talk about the lack of father figures for men, particularly in inner cities? Why can’t we talk about the lack of representation for what actual masculinity is and should be? These issues and hundreds more are very real, and go unaddressed. Not once have I heard anyone talking about these issues in every day life. Not even by myself, because I’m too afraid to bring them up for fear of being called misogynist or sexist, or just having them rejected.— Keegan Butler, Danvers MAGentrificationIn my opinion, The problem that I think the people in my community should focus on the most is gentrification. Gentrification is when richer people or people of the higher class move to an area of lower class and try to make it Higher class and what it isn’t. I think this is a problem because my neighborhood is perfect the way it is (I think), but the rich people think that it needs work and that they can make it better and more fit for them because they may like the location but not the actual community. It just gets on my nerves because they think just because they have money, they can go to any neighborhood and raise the expectations of the people who own apartments and places to live so that the people who were there first will have a much harder time paying for it etc. I would take a stand on the topic of homelessness and poverty because this is also a slight problem in my neighborhood. I think that I would stand on this because I hate to see people suffer like that everywhere in the world.— Azalea Derrickson, Masterman School,PhillyDeforestationOne issue that I think deserves more attention is deforestation as well as the destruction of any of the other few untouched places on this planet. These places are the home of many animals that would go extinct if we do not stop destroying these places. It is important to preserve areas like these because, not only do they house many amazing animals, but many of these areas, such as the Amazon Rainforest (from 2017-2018, around 3,050 square miles of the Amazon was cleared) also provide oxygen for much of our planet and, as human beings, we need oxygen to survive. These few preserved places are not only valuable because they benefit us and other creatures, but also because they have value in their own right. The forests and mountains and plains were formed by chance. They were not formed explicitly for our benefit or to satisfy our endless greed. We cannot destroy these places for lumber or oil or iron because those few filthy rich individuals at the head of the companies that benefit from this destruction want more money.— Amalia T., Masterman, PhiladelphiaGender equalityI think gender inequality is an issue that needs more attention. I think so many people aren’t earning the credit that they deserve. People work so hard to fight inequality just to be pushed away. Gender inequality isn’t just for females. It applies to males as well. The gender stereotypes, the LGBTQ+ community, the amount of money people are paid etc. This matters to me because I am a very strong believer of equality and equal rights for everyone no matter their color, gender, race, religion or anything near those terms. This stands out for me especially because this isn’t anything that is new. This has been going on since forever. “Boys can’t like pink,” “girls should be at home washing dishes.”— Havana C, Masterman: Philadelphia, PAAnother current issue I feel very strongly about is feminism and gender equality, meaning politically, in the workplace and in everyday life. Currently, some forms of feminism are viewed as unnecessary and are only believed to exist because “women want attention and want more power than men”. I can’t say I blame the men who do not recognize the inequalities women, specifically black, indigenous and transgender women face everyday. Most men have not felt the fear of being cat called, most men have not had to sit down with their mother and be told why they can’t go certain places with certain people. Most men do not fear for their lives when walking home alone on a certain road. Most men do not fear that when they get older, another human would put something in their drink to lure them back to their apartment. Most men do not feel the fear I feel when a man enters an empty elevator alone with them. Most men have not felt the fear of being a woman in America.Raiin.org says, “Females ages 16-19 are 4 times more likely than the general population to be victims of rape, attempted rape, or sexual assault”. Additionally, “Of women who are raped in their lifetime: 17.9% are Caucasian,11.9% are Latina, 18.8% are African-American, 34.1% are American Indian or Alaskan Native..”. There is no wonder that young girls are fearful for what their future in our messed up, rickety and flimsy American society may hold.— Angela Xhori, Julia R. Masterman, PhiladelphiaMental healthI think an issue that deserves more attention is mental health awareness, especially for teens. It’s frustrating that mental health is one of those things I only hear in hushed whispers. It’s frustrating that my friend’s mom thinks she can cure her with essential oils but thinks that medication will harm her. It’s frustrating when schools encourage the decline of mental health by piling on homework and telling students to get it done by any means necessary. It’s frustrating when my guidance counselor says my grades are too high for me to be depressed, and that I should just stop procrastinating. It’s frustrating when my classmates make fun of me for something I can’t control. It’s frustrating seeing all of this misinformation about mental health, and it’s sad that adults aren’t willing to do more to educate us about it.There are kids out there with mental illnesses who don’t know they have mental illness because they don’t know what they are. There are kids out there who aren’t able to get treatment for their mental illnesses because their parents don’t know what they are or are misinformed about them. 1 in 5 teens has a mental illness. 1 in 13 teens has asthma. How come schools talk about asthma more than mental illness? If this many teens have a mental illness then we should be more supportive of them. If this many teens have a mental illness we should talk more about them.— Ami S, Masterman, PhiladelphiaFor our Picture Prompt “Hole in the Ceiling,” we invited students to use the above illustration as inspiration for the opening of a short story, poem or memoir. We loved the poetic nature of each of these pieces. Many students wove in literary devices that made these stories just as dreamy as the moon and stars themselves.FreedomHer whole life she has lived in this box, trapped by the walls that confine her. She doesn’t even know how much is beyond this room, all she knows are these walls. This angers me. I have to do something about it, I can’t just sit here and let her live the rest of her life not knowing how free she can be. I decide to take action instantly. I grab a nearby saw and start cutting away at the roof. She is horrified, her whole life is getting cut into pieces right in-front of her. Once I finish the hole she looks out. Her teary eyes turned confused and then amazed. She had finally seen the outside, she finally knew that there was more in this world than her room, she finally knew that she was free.— Wyatt Young, Hoggard High SchoolThe stars and the moonI miss the stars and the moon Out by the country sides We lived by a lagoon But modern life bides We now go on in boxes Hopeful this wasn’t hoaxes She misses them too At this point, it’s my cue As she snuggles with her stuffed roo I wield a saw and whip it up to the roof and sue Now the stars and moon shine brighter Since we are reunited again, but tighter— Catherine L. Hoerner, Walla Walla High SchoolA touch of moonlightShe had always yearned for the touch of moonlight on her skin. She knew it to be only a dream, for she was trapped in a room, her only companion the light-blue blanket she kept at her side at all times. She continually dreamed for the day that her prince would come for her, and they would gaze upon the stars together, her dream coming to life.Today was another ordinary day, the girl lay in bed and gazed at the ceiling, imagining how the stars would wink at her as if to say, “You’re not alone.”She snapped her eyes shut, not wanting to believe that this small room was all that waited for her. She gripped the blanket tightly and ducked underneath the covers, wanting the nightmare to end. There would be no prince charming for someone like her, abandoned by her own parents and forgotten by her so-called friends.Minutes, hours passed and the girl lay under her beloved blanket thinking, not wanting to believe she heard the soothing sound of metal on wood. Not being able to take it anymore, she sat upright and blinked up at the sky, not wanting to believe it.On her bed stood a man, unlike any man she had encountered before. He smiled down at her as if wanting to say, “I’m sorry I took so long.” The girl gasped and stared at the hole in her ceiling. She sat paralyzed and watched the stars twinkling. It was better than anything she could have imagined. Tears blurred the girl’s vision as she looked at the man and said, “Thank you.”— Kiara Martinez, Walla Walla High School SchoolDon’t let this room limit your dreamsThere, you see? That crescent you see on the sky. It’s what many people try to reach even though they know it’s too far. But the Americans knew nothing about that , they just went and came knowing that they beat the Russians by setting a foot on it.ButIt’s not just about reaching the moon or even the stars. It’s about setting a goal that seem impossible for man to get. But what happen if you reach it? What happens when you have it all? Then you Worry about losing it. You start to wonder: what if someone else will accomplish that goal better? And even worse, get recognized for it and not I.ButIt’s not about that, it’s about accomplishing something for yourself and not for others. It’s about going out of your comfort zone and challenging yourself. Or even making excuses not to do it.But hey, today is today and tomorrow will never be today.Life is too short and don’t let this room limit your dreams.— Maycol J. Betanco, Classical High School In Providence, RIGlimpse of a shooting starFrom the day she was born, she could never see the moon. Apart from the stars, and the other giants that riddle the night sky, she could never see the moon. She was born missing part of her lumbar spine, and she couldn’t get out of her bed for that reason. Her home had no windows and I, as her caretaker, was never allowed to move her bed. There were some nights where I stayed overnight and thought about dragging her outside just so she could catch a glimpse at a shooting star. But, it never happened. Until one day it hit me. When she was already asleep one night, I got up from my post at the couch. I grabbed a saw from her garage and, before she could wake up, started hacking away at the drywall above our heads.— Max Plasotes, Northbrook ILThe universe watching down on meAt night I lay in bed wishing to fall asleep under the stars. I’m so lucky to have a strong love. He does what I need. I needed to sleep under the stars. He cut a hole in the ceiling for me. Now I lay here so thankful that I can sleep with the universe watching down on me.— Carolyn, Walla Walla High SchoolAdvertisement