AdvertisementSupported byLast ChanceAs the museum’s Andy Warhol retrospective ends its run, Holland Cotter revisits the exhibition through a work that showed the artist shifting gears. By Holland CotterIn the early 1960s, firsthand reports of the civil rights protests roiling the country barely penetrated the cushioned Boston suburb where I grew up. All news arrived there, filtered and slightly delayed, through the media. In a May 1963 issue of Life, I came across Charles Moore’s photographs of a police assault that month, in Birmingham, Ala., on black civil rights protesters. In one stuttering sequence of pictures, a police attack dog lunges at an unarmed demonstrator and rips the clothes from his body. For many Americans, these pictures were a political bombshell. They were for me.Andy Warhol, still early in his career as a New York artist, saw them, too, and instantly took them as subjects for a set of colored silk-screen paintings. They were part of a larger body of paintings called “Death and Disaster,” which are together one of the greatest achievements of 20th-century American art.In making them, Warhol was shifting gears. He was moving away from consumerist themes — soft drinks, dollar bills and Hollywood stars — to grittier fare, though the idea to change may not have been his. According to a 1989 Warhol biography by Victor Bockris, it was the curator Henry Geldzahler who advised him to cast an eye on a different aspect of American culture.“That’s enough affirmation of life,” Geldzahler reportedly said. “It’s enough affirmation of soup and Coke bottles. Maybe everything isn’t so fabulous in America. It’s time for some death. This is what’s really happening.”Warhol took his advice, though seems to have chosen new themes, mostly lifted from tabloids, himself: shots of auto fatalities, suicides, electric chairs and Birmingham racial violence. Examples of all these are in the Whitney Museum of Art’s monumental Warhol retrospective, “Andy Warhol — From A to B and Back Again,” which closes on March 31. And none look both more of the present, and more redolent of a specific past, than two 1963 “Race Riot” paintings.These large-scale pictures — “Mustard Race Riot” and “Red-Pink Riot” — come with obvious problems, beginning with the “riot” in their titles. It implies that the protesters, practicing nonviolent direct action, were harmfully unruly, when it was the police who were. And there is the ethically fraught matter of image appropriation.The issue exploded at the 2017 Whitney Biennial, when a painting by a white artist, Dana Schutz, riffing on a photograph of a lynched young black man, Emmett Till, provoked outrage from African-American artists. Along these lines, one has to question Warhol’s right to adopt and further sensationalize images of black bodies in pain, particularly if his motive was professional opportunism rather than politics.In fact, we don’t know for certain what his thinking was, and probably never will. Left with suspicions, I still find the “Race Riot” pictures stirring. In part, this is because their images are embedded in my personal history, as they were in Warhol’s, and because they’re reminders of a national crime that has yet to be stopped. “Mustard Race Riot” seems designed to accommodate its endurance. The painting is a diptych, with the right panel left empty, as if reserved for images of violence yet to come.Do I love this painting? Love is not a word I would use to describe my regard for Warhol, which is high. He and his art are too trouble-makingly elusive and embrace-aversive for that. But this is true of some of the best history painters over the centuries — Goya, Géricault, Turner — and a history painter is what Warhol is. It’s a tough job, but every era in every culture needs someone to do it. And for late-20th-century — and early 21st-century — America, Warhol, like it or not, is the one. He still has his hand on our pulse, a hand encased in a latex glove.Andy Warhol — From A to B and Back AgainThrough March 31 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 99 Gansevoort Street, Manhattan; 212-570-3600, whitney.org. The exhibition travels to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (May 18-Sept. 2) and the Art Institute of Chicago (Oct. 20-Jan. 26, 2020).Holland Cotter is the co-chief art critic. He writes on a wide range of art, old and new, and he has made extended trips to Africa and China. He was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Criticism in 2009.  Advertisement