AdvertisementSupported byThe many serious crimes that Mueller uncovered, almost by accident, show us that we have to prioritize official corruption.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who has worked in federal and state government.We are at risk of missing the most important lesson taught by the Mueller investigation. The rampant criminality it revealed suggests the desperate need to thoroughly investigate financial, political and electoral criminality in the United States. With the so-called war on drugs in remission, Mr. Mueller’s work should inspire federal and state officials to make the crimes of swampland and related white-collar and cyber criminality the next priority for the nation’s most talented prosecutors. For what Mr. Mueller really found, above all, was abundant evidence of crimes against democracy itself.Consider that in just 22 months, Mr. Mueller’s small team of lawyers and investigators indicted 34 people (and that’s not counting the referrals) — many of them serious criminals who were largely off the radar otherwise. Without the Mueller investigation, Paul Manafort might well still be buying carpets instead of sitting in solitary confinement; Michael Cohen might still be shaking down corporations for cash; Richard Pinedo still selling stolen identities to online buyers; and Rick Gates and Sam Patten still selling access to hostile foreign powers.This group of criminals were caught by happenstance. They had the misfortune of having some association with Donald Trump and the further coincidence of a special counsel appointment. That prompts a question: Just how many other Manaforts, Cohens and Gateses are still operating out there?Do we really imagine that Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates are the only well-connected people in Washington who have had the idea of taking millions from foreign governments in exchange for promises of influence while seeking to conceal these payments? Does it seem likely that the Russians are the only ones who will ever try to hack an election by trolling, phishing and the intentional dissemination of defamatory propaganda? And what are the odds that Mr. Cohen is the only man in New York guilty of major tax evasion and making major in-kind contributions to a candidate without reporting them? The real bottom line of the Mueller report is that the future of law enforcement will not be found on street corners. It will be along the K Street corridor, the offices of unsavory real estate developers and the darkest alleys of the information superhighway.While the Manafort-Gates indictments suggest diving into the underside of lobbying, the electoral tampering charges directed at the Russian troll farms and hackers suggest newer and even more pressing priorities. Mr. Mueller’s indictments were limited to Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. But the United States has plenty of domestic trolls and malicious hackers, too. Some of them threaten journalists; others have already used millions of stolen identities to attack federal agencies with fake opinions. To say this is an area of national vulnerability is a gross understatement.There is far more to the agenda suggested by the Mueller probe than just putting some bad guys in jail. What the indicted targets threatened were key pillars of democracy itself, including an uncorrupted electoral process, a government free from secret foreign influence and the credibility of the main channels of speech. It is the constitutional duty of law enforcement to protect the basic institutions of democracy, but other priorities have taken precedence.Such as the so-called war on drugs. Since the 1970s, when President Richard Nixon announced it, federal and state law enforcement has been asked to put much of their time and resources into fighting drug crimes, at the expense of other offenses. The result is well known to anyone who has worked in the court system or law enforcement itself. Violations of election law are rarely detected and even more rarely prosecuted. For the rich and immoral, it seems foolish not to try tax avoidance. The hard truth is that crimes committed by people like Mr. Manafort have become crimes that pay, for the chances of being caught are low, and if you are caught, the sentences are relatively light. In fact, federal corruption and white-collar prosecutions are at a 20-year low and down 40 percent since 1998, according to tracking by Syracuse University.There is a grave danger that the swirling politics of the Mueller report will lead us to forget what it revealed: a toxic cloud of routine criminality surrounding the American political system. It echoed previous efforts, like the F.B.I.’s Abscam sting in the late 1970s, which yielded the corruption convictions of one senator and six congressmen, not to mention the more recent corruption trials in New York, Illinois and California.This is why we need political leaders who will free up investigators and prosecutors who have been fighting the war on drugs and put them to work investigating Manafort-style foreign corruption, Cohen-style financial crimes and Russian-style election propagandizing. The Mueller inquiry may be over, but it should inspire the work of a new generation of prosecutors who want to fight one of the great evils of our time.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement