AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Tuesday about President Trump’s response to the end of the Mueller investigation misstated a remark the president made about his critics. He said that some were guilty of “evil things,” not “evil deeds.” The error was repeated in the headline.NATIONALAn article on Tuesday about activists urging warnings about the connections between breast implants and disease misspelled the given name of a woman who testified at the hearing on breast implants. She is Christina Avila, not Christine Avila.SPORTSAn article on Tuesday about the second weekend of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament erroneously attributed a distinction to Houston. It is one of two teams, along with Gonzaga, still in the tournament from outside college basketball’s six power conferences; it is not the only one.ARTSAn article on Thursday about a diorama at the American Museum of Natural History depicting a meeting between Peter Stuyvesant and members of the Lenape tribe overstated what is known about the weapon a soldier is carrying in the scene; it is not a rifle. The article also described incorrectly the skirts worn by the Lenape women depicted in the diorama. They fell to mid-calf; they did not brush the ground.•A picture caption with an article on March 1 about the Los Angeles art scene misidentified the title of an artwork. It is “Ground Transposition,” not “Ground Transportation.”DININGAn article last Wednesday about a resurgent local-food movement in Puerto Rico misspelled the surname of a lawyer turned farmer. She is Natalia Quiles Deyá, not Deya. The article also misspelled the name of a native herb that Ms. Quiles grows. It is oregano brujo, not bruja. Additionally, the article misstated the Vietnamese name for the herb recao, or culantro. It is ngo gai, not rau ram. And the article misidentified the two women who founded the restaurant El Departamento de la Comida. They are not sisters.•A review last Wednesday of the Japanese restaurant Odo misidentified a spirit used in the mikan-orange cocktail. It is Japanese shochu, not its Korean counterpart, soju. The article also misidentified the sauce brushed over some of the sushi. It is nikiri, not nishiki. And it misidentified the rice used by a Brooklyn brewery for one of its sakes. It is Yamada Nishiki from California and Arkansas, not koshihikari from New Jersey.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Monday about the Israeli spymaster Rafi Eitan referred incorrectly to the disappearance in the late 1960s of enriched uranium from a nuclear fuel plant in the Pittsburgh area. Though many believed that Israeli agents had stolen the material and diverted it to their country to help its nuclear weapons program, that allegation was never proved. And though Mr. Eitan visited the plant around the time of the disappearance, it was never shown conclusively that he had had an important role in it.•An obituary on March 4 about the Chinese historian Li Xueqin misstated when he wrote an article critical of his mentor, Chen Mengjia. It was in 1957 — not after the start of the Cultural Revolution in 1966.OPINIONAn editorial on Friday misstated the academic affiliation of Jennifer Lawless. She is a professor of politics at the University of Virginia; she is no longer director of the Women and Politics Institute at American University.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement