AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBryce Harper got his first hit of spring training.Harper lined a 97-mph fastball to center in the fourth inning of Wednesday's game against Detroit his first spring training hit with the Philadelphia Phillies after a 0-for-9 start.Harper jokingly gestured toward the dugout that he wanted to keep the ball.It was Harper's 16th plate appearance over six exhibition games. Spencer Turnbull struck him out swinging in the first.In his final at-bat, Harper walked against Reed Garrett to lead off the seventh. Harper has struck out six times and drawn five walks."Took great swings on pitches that he just missed and fouled back," Phillies manager Gabe Kapler said after the 3-1 loss to the Tigers."And one swing, a foul ball (down the third-base side) that was a real near-miss. You could see with just a little bit better timing that ball is in the seats in left field. So, a lot to get excited about there with Bryce."Harper played seven innings in right field.Kapler plans to hit Harper third regularly during the regular season."Right now I'm happy with Harper in the three-hole because I think it makes him feel most confident," Kapler said. "For me, that trumps anything."Harper agreed to a $330 million, 13-year contract in late February, almost two weeks after spring training began. He missed one game after getting hit by a pitch in the ankle on Friday.Also on Wednesday, Manny Machado, who also signed a huge free-agent contract with San Diego in the offseason, hit his first homer of the spring.The two-run homer came in the first inning off Brandon Woodruff in the Padres' 10-7 loss to Milwaukee. Machado is batting .176 this spring with four RBIs.MORE FROM AROUND SPRING TRAININGTIGERS 3, PHILLIES 1Nick Pivetta made his second start, pitching five innings and allowing three runs, three hits, while striking out eight. The Phillies managed just six singles.Josh Harrison led off the third inning with his first home run, adding an RBI single for Detroit. Miguel Cabrera singled in a run. Rotation hopeful Spencer Turnbull started, allowing three hits in five shutout innings, striking out seven.MARLINS 6, CARDINALS 0Neil Walker hit a two-run home run for Miami. Brian Anderson went 2 for 2 with two RBIs and a run scored. Rotation hopeful Pablo Lopez started, pitching six scoreless innings and allowed two hits, lowering his ERA to 0.90.St. Louis had just three hits — two singles by Drew Robinson and one from Dexter Fowler.PIRATES 6, TWINS 5Carl Moran drove in the winning run in the top of the ninth. Joe Musgrove made his second start, pitching five innings and allowed three runs and eight hits.Jonathan Schoop hit a two-run home run and singled twice and scored twice for Minnesota. Byron Buxton had an RBI single and is batting .438. C.J. Cron doubled, singled and scored twice.Michael Pineda started, giving up two hits in five shutout innings, striking out five. The Twins released first baseman Lucas Duda.ASTROS 2, YANKEES 1Carlos Correa hit his first home run — a solo shot — for Houston. Wade Miley started, pitching 4 1/3 innings and giving up one run and three hits and two walks.Gary Sanchez doubled in New York's only run.Also, New York pitcher Luis Severino played catch at the Yankees' spring training facility in Tampa for the first time since being shut down on March 5 because of a shoulder issue. Severino is slated to play catch again on Thursday.Manager Aaron Boone did not have a timeline for Severino's first bullpen session, but expects if Thursday goes well it would follow soon after.BRAVES 8, BLUE JAYS 7Ronald Acuna Jr. went 2 for 3 with a stolen base and a run scored for Atlanta. Sean Newcomb allowed three runs, two hits and five walks in five innings.Kevin Pillar hit a three-run home run and Teoscar Hernandez added a two-run shot for Toronto. Matt Shoemaker allowed three runs, three hits and two walks in five innings and struck out seven.BREWERS 10, PADRES 7Manny Machado hit his first home run — a two-run shot — for San Diego. Wil Myers added a two-run homer. Matt Strahm allowed two hits and a walk in five scoreless innings.Ben Gamel went 3 for 5 with a two-run home run and four RBIs for Milwaukee. Eric Thames added a two-run homer and Manny Pina hit a solo shot. Brandon Woodruff went 5 2/3 innings and allowed three runs and four hits and struck out eight.DIAMONDBACKS 11, WHITE SOX 2Alex Avila hit two three-run home runs for Arizona. Closer Archie Bradley retired all five batters he faced and added a single.Ryan Goins hit his first home run for Chicago. Ervin Santana allowed four runs and eight hits, two walks in four innings. Starter Lucas Giolito entered in the sixth and went four innings and allowed seven runs and eight hits.REDS 6, RANGERS 1Jose Iglesias went 3 for 4 with 2 RBIs and a run scored for Cincinnati. Kyle Farmer added two singles and an RBI. Tanner Roark went 5 1/3 innings and allowed a run, five hits, two walks and struck out five.Delino DeShields hit his third double for Texas and scored on Roughned Odor's single.___Advertisement