the first seasonThe Mets won just 40 games and lost 120, the most defeats in a single season in the modern history of baseball.Manager Casey Stengel theatrically pointing the way at the start of spring training in 1962. It’s doubtful Stengel anticipated just how bad his team would turn out to be.CreditCreditAssociated PressSupported byBy The New York TimesThe original Mets were created from the ashes of the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants, both of whom had deserted New York City after the 1957 season. Now, five years later, National League baseball was back, so to speak. For it was quickly apparent that the Mets’ roster, put together mostly from players left unprotected by the other National League teams, was a mess.Left to do the best he could with it was baseball’s most colorful manager, Casey Stengel, who had won seven World Series with the Yankees but had been dismissed after the 1960 season, at the age of 70, because the Yankees felt he was too old. Now, he was even older, but on the Mets that hardly mattered because they had plenty of players past their prime.Stengel, with his amusing, and endless, observations became the perfect narrator for a season of amazingly bad baseball. It began with nine straight losses and by its close, the Mets had won just 40 games and lost 120, the most defeats in a single season in the modern history of baseball.Adding to the absurdity was that the Mets had two pitchers named Bob Miller — Righty Bob Miller and Lefty Bob Miller. And a first baseman known as Marvelous Marv Throneberry, with the Marvelous meant as a joke, not a compliment.On it went right up to the last day of the season, when the Mets managed to hit into a triple play. By then, as Robert Lipsyte of The New York Times put it, they had become an international symbol of incompetence.Following are excerpts from Times articles during the 1962 season:ST. LOUIS, April 11History was made tonight by the New York Mets. They broke into the expanded National League at long last, but wound up on the short end of an 11-4 score, beaten conclusively by the St. Louis Cardinals at Busch Stadium.In their first official effort, the Mets unfortunately did much to beat themselves. Despite the 16 hits the Cardinals collected, four ineffective New York pitchers, backed by a loose defense, hurt the Mets immeasurably.The season opener here before 16,147 half-frozen fans saw the Mets commit three errors and permit three stolen bases.Adding to Manager Casey Stengel’s miseries, Roger Craig, the starter and losing pitcher, committed a balk that led to one of two St. Louis runs in the first inning. In addition, the Mets bounced into two double plays. LOUIS EFFRATPOLO GROUNDS, April 13Civic pride erupted in one lusty ovation after another at the Polo Grounds today as 12,447 baseball fans hailed the return of the prodigal National League.In the eye of the hurricane of hurrahs were the New York Mets — a team conceived in frustration and dedicated to the proposition that this teeming metropolis is a two-league town as well as a summer festival.Murky skies, autumn temperatures and a relentless drizzle kept the welcoming committee from reaching major league proportions.However, what the crowd lacked in numbers it offset with enthusiasm, generously pouring out affection that had found no satisfactory outlet since the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers absconded to the West Coast at the close of the 1957 season.Of those present on this historic Friday the 13th, only the Pittsburgh Pirates extended anything except felicitations and best wishes to Casey Stengel’s Mets. And despite profound cogitation and adroit personnel shuffling by the former Yankee manager, the Pirates won, 4-3. ROBERT TEAGUECHICAGO, June 8After 17 consecutive defeats, the New York Mets today emerged from the darkness by beating the Chicago Cubs, 4-3, in the first game of a doubleheader at Wrigley Field.To Mets fans, the fact that the Cubs retaliated with a 3-2 victory in the second game, which was called after eight innings because of darkness, doesn’t matter. Neither does the fact that the Mets’ triumph came on an unearned run in the ninth inning. After 17 losses, a victory is a victory. Jay Hook, who needed last-inning relief by Craig Anderson, was the winning pitcher in the opener. He is the same right-hander who snapped the nine-game losing string with which the Mets opened the season.Not since May 20, when they twice upended the Milwaukee Braves, had the Mets known victory. It was the longest losing streak ever for a New York team in the major leagues. LOUIS EFFRATPOLO GROUNDS, SEPT. 22Even in the autumn of their pathetic despair, the New York Mets cannot escape history. Each step and misstep seem destined to remain forever in the dusty recesses of major league archives, or at least in corner crevices in the minds of those who care.Today, at the Polo Grounds, there were at least four such footnotes to baseball’s memorabilia. They obscured the Mets’ 116th defeat, a dreary 9-2 drubbing by the Chicago Cubs.The saddest of the four is what Met officials disregard as a “negative statistic.” Al Jackson, one of the two best pitchers on the club, was clobbered for five runs on seven hits during the two and a third innings he pitched.The slim left-hander was charged with his 20th loss of the season in 28 decisions. This is the first time since 1936 that a National League club has had two 20-game losers. Roger Craig, the other one, has a 9-23 won-lost record.The Philadelphia Phillies turned the trick 26 years ago when Bucky Walters lost 21 and Joe Bowman 20. ROBERT LIPSYTEMILWAUKEE, SEPT. 26Shed another tear for the New York Mets, who bowed, 6-3, to the Braves tonight and wound up with exclusive rights to another record, asterisk, footnote and all.Casey Stengel’s men suffered their 118th defeat. This negative statistic made the Mets the losingest baseball team in modern history. The Philadelphia Athletics of 1916 lost 117 games.The game drew only 3,239 fans, the smallest night-game turnout since the Braves moved to Milwaukee. Play was delayed 42 minutes after the top of the first inning because of rain.With Henry Aaron’s three-run homer off Roger Craig supplying the crusher in the third, and the 23-year-old southpaw Denny Lemaster striking out 10 Mets, this was just another night in a long series of sorry nights for the first-year club. Craig, who departed for a pinch-hitter in the fourth, hung around long enough to absorb his 24th setback. LOUIS EFFRATCHICAGO, SEPT. 30It mattered not that the New York Mets won or lost, or even how they played the game today before 3,960 fans at Wrigley Field. For the record, though, the season’s final, for which Casey Stengel asked and obtained volunteers, went to the Cubs, 5-1.It was the Mets’ 120th defeat in this, their initial campaign, and it left them in the National League cellar, 60 games from the top. The season was concluded as it had started — with a setback — after the Mets had been victimized by an eighth-inning triple play.Had the season been fun?“I would have to say no to that one,” Stengel said. LOUIS EFFRATEditors’ note: The 1962 Mets hold the record for most losses in a season in modern Major League Baseball history.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article, using information from the Associated Press, misstated the team the Mets were playing at the Polo Grounds. It was the San Francisco Giants, not the Los Angeles Dodgers.Advertisement