AdvertisementSupported byBy Carlotta GallISTANBUL — An Istanbul courtroom opened a window on the state of American-Turkish relations as Metin Topuz, a Turkish employee of the United States Consulate in Istanbul, went on trial in one of several cases that showcase American powerlessness in the face of the intransigence of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.Mr. Topuz was ordered to remain in custody by the court Thursday at the end of a three-day hearing. He had been held in solitary confinement for 18 months until his trial began this week, despite repeated appeals by his lawyers for him to be released.Turkish prosecutors have accused him of espionage and trying to overthrow the government, claiming that he had communicated extensively with followers of the United States-based cleric Fethullah Gulen within the ranks of the police who are accused of organizing a failed coup in 2016.American officials have dismissed the charges as baseless and Mr. Topuz’s detention as a form of hostage-taking by the Turkish government.“We did not see any evidence of criminal wrongdoing on the part of Metin Topuz,” Jennifer L. Davis, the United States consul general in Istanbul, said after the decision Thursday. “We reiterate our government’s call for the swift and fair resolution of this matter.”A dozen American diplomatic staff members attended the daily hearings. Ms. Davis was accompanied by chargé d’affaires, Jeffrey M. Hovenier, the senior-most diplomat in the country, on the first day, which officials said was an effort to impress how seriously the embassy takes the monthslong imprisonment and trial of its local staff member.The strain was visible all around. As Mr. Topuz, 60, was led through a crowd to the courtroom by two uniformed gendarmes, he bent his head and held back tears. Several of his American colleagues, seeing him for the first time in 18 months, thinner, his crumpled linen jacket hanging off him, could not hold back their own.American officials have said that it is their highest priority to gain freedom for the three Turkish employees of United States Consulates in Adana and Istanbul and a Turkish-American NASA scientist, Serkan Golge, who were detained in a sweeping government crackdown after the failed coup attempt.The three employees were contacting Turkish officials as part of their work as translators and liaison officers, said American officials, who called the lengthy imprisonment without charge a gross violation of rights.But Mr. Erdogan is at loggerheads with the United States over several strategic issues. Those include American backing of Kurdish-led militia units in Syria that Turkey regards as part of a designated terrorist group; Turkey’s purchase of the Russian S-400 missile defense system; and Washington’s failure to extradite Mr. Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of instigating the coup attempt.Mr. Topuz is just one of tens of thousands of Turkish citizens on trial in Turkey. Another 150,000 have been purged from their jobs. Investigations into the vast network of supporters Mr. Gulen built throughout Turkey’s law administration and security forces are continuing and arrests occur every week.But Mr. Topuz is widely viewed as a pawn in a larger diplomatic game, and he denied the charges against him when he presented his defense Tuesday.“I did not betray my country, I was just doing my job,” he told the court. “I am not a bad person. All these allegations dishonor me.”An employee of the Istanbul consulate for 25 years, he was hired straight after completing his military service as a switchboard operator and then a translator. In 1992, he joined the Drug Enforcement Administration and rose to the position of investigative assistant.“I have a good job, a loving family and a happy life,” he told the judge. “Our son got married and my wife and I were dreaming of our retirement days. I am innocent.”He is charged with obtaining secret confidential information for the purposes of espionage and with illegal weapons dealing. He denied stealing information or holding any position of authority, explaining that his job was that of a translator who helped American and Turkish officials cooperate on narcotics and money laundering cases.As part of his job he was in regular touch with Turkish narcotics and drug enforcement police officials, some of whom have since been accused of being followers of Mr. Gulen.Mr. Topuz said most of the contacts he made were in connection with an important case involving a smuggling racket in which nearly 200 cars stolen in the United States were shipped to Turkey.The case, he said, was like a James Bond tale, with the smuggler boss driving an armored Hummer that had electrified door handles and that dropped nails on the roads to deter pursuit. The Turkish-American cooperation led to a successful prosecution of the main culprit, he said, but, his voice breaking, he added that he wished the case had never happened.He held the courtroom enthralled as he explained with patience, in an attitude perhaps honed over years of explaining foreign habits to visiting American colleagues, the cultural differences between Turkish and American work practices.“When a director comes into my room, I do not have to get up,” he told the courtroom of Turkish judges, lawyers and gendarmes. “That is the case not only in our office but in America in general.”“As for walking one step behind your boss,” he said. “If you do it once or twice, they say, ‘What are you doing?’” That even raised a moment of levity in court.“Generally we eat lunch together,” he said of his working life in the consulate. “We joke with each other. We have a very relaxed atmosphere.”“On Friday afternoons we meet together socially. The consul general comes, everybody comes together, and sometimes the drinks are served by the top person.”The Turkish government witnesses who testified the second day, most of them by secure video link from prisons and police stations, often contradicted their statements recorded in the indictment, or were easily contested by Mr. Topuz.One witness claimed he had met Mr. Topuz more than once at his office with an American female colleague named Cameron Taylor. Mr. Topuz corrected him in court, saying Cameron Taylor was a male D.E.A. officer.Two of them supported his defense, confirming they met over work relations.Mr. Topuz was questioned about phone calls to one man who has been accused of being a Gulen follower. He said the man was a carpenter he had hired to repair his mother’s furniture and on another occasion to make kitchen cabinets for his son’s new apartment. “I never socialized with him,” he said.The decision was not unexpected: Just three days ahead of local elections, nationalist rhetoric has been running high. The judge prevented family members, diplomatic staff and journalists from entering the court to hear the interim decision and only allowed Mr. Topuz and his lawyers to be present.Follow Carlotta Gall on Twitter: @carlottagall.Advertisement