AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe parents of a woman who was fatally shot in San Francisco by an undocumented immigrant in 2015 cannot sue the city for freeing the man without telling federal immigration authorities just months before the shooting, a federal appeals court ruled this week.  President Trump has highlighted the case in his attacks on illegal immigration and sanctuary cities.Kathryn Steinle, 32, was shot by Jose Ines Garcia Zarate in July 2015 as she was walking on a San Francisco pier. Mr. Garcia Zarate, an undocumented immigrant who had been deported several times, had been freed by the San Francisco Sheriff’s Department less than three months earlier after charges against him were dropped in a separate drug case.In a trial that lasted more than five weeks, Mr. Garcia Zarate was acquitted by a jury in November 2017 on murder and manslaughter charges but convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm. He said he had fired the gun by accident, and evidence presented at the trial indicated the bullet had ricocheted.Mr. Garcia Zarate was sentenced in January 2018 to the three years he had already served in prison pending trial. He faces two federal firearms charges in a separate case stemming from the July 2015 shooting. He has pleaded not guilty.The case gained national attention as Mr. Trump seized on it as an example of what he called the problems with illegal immigration and sanctuary cities, which seek to limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement had asked the sheriff’s department to hold Mr. Zarate, but he was released in April 2015 “without notification to ICE,” according to Tuesday’s appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s parents filed a wrongful-death suit against the city and sheriff in 2016.Tuesday’s decision by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed a lower court’s ruling that said that the authorities in San Francisco cannot be held liable for Ms. Steinle’s death.“Kathryn Steinle’s death was a senseless tragedy,” the San Francisco City Attorney’s Office said in a statement Tuesday. “As a city, we are heartbroken for her family and continue to grieve for their loss. The issue before the court was whether the city and its taxpayers can be held liable under these circumstances for the actions of a former inmate. The appellate court affirmed that the city is not liable and that federal law did not compel the sheriff to act differently than he did.”The statement said the ruling “allows the city to decide what policies are best to protect all of its residents and make communities safer.”A lawyer for Mr. Garcia Zarate declined to comment on Tuesday night.Lawyers for the parents of Ms. Steinle did not immediately return calls for comment, and a phone call to a number listed for her father was not immediately returned.It’s not clear whether they plan to appeal Tuesday’s ruling.They still have pending claims against the United States over the gun used in the fatal shooting, which was stolen from a federal Bureau of Land Management ranger’s vehicle, according to the appellate court decision.Ms. Steinle’s death fed into a fierce debate over how law enforcement should approach immigrants without legal status; Mr. Garcia Zarate had been deported to Mexico at least five times from 1993 to 2011, according to court documents.Mr. Trump repeatedly invoked her killing as he campaigned for president with a hard-line stance on immigration.Elisha Brown contributed reporting.Advertisement