AdvertisementSupported byBy Laurel GraeberOur guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘THE ADVENTURES OF ALVIN SPUTNIK: DEEP SEA EXPLORER’ at the Clark Studio Theater (March 30-31, 2 p.m.). This one-person play simultaneously evokes the ancient Greek myth of Orpheus and pressing 21st-century concerns about climate change. Winner of an outstanding solo show award when it ran at the New York International Fringe Festival in 2009, the production, from the Australian company the Last Great Hunt, takes place in a future in which the oceans have risen so steeply that the only habitable places are atop mountains and skyscrapers. LC Kids, Lincoln Center’s series for young people, has revived this work, which was created by Tim Watts, as part of its expanded offerings for theatergoers 12 and older. Incorporating animation, puppetry and music, the show follows the titular character on a volunteer mission into the ocean depths, where he hopes both to find a hospitable environment for humans and to reunite with the soul of his dead wife.212-721-6500, kids.lincolncenter.org‘ANIMANIACS IN CONCERT!’ at the Loft at City Winery (March 31, 7:30 p.m.). Many children have never seen Rob Paulsen, but they may well have heard him. A talented voice actor, he has performed such memorable animated roles as Pinky in “Pinky and the Brain,” Yakko in “Animaniacs” and Raphael in “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” (for which he now does the voice of the new character Foot Lieutenant). At this show, he will appear with Randy Rogel, the composer for “Animaniacs,” to perform songs from that 1990s series alongside screenings of some of its classic episodes. And though it’s a school night, just remember that those cartoon numbers can be really educational.212-608-0555, citywinery.comBRICK FEST LIVE at the New York Hall of Science (March 30-31, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.). Imagine being surrounded by more than 100,000 Lego bricks. Now here’s the good news: You won’t have to pick them up and put them away. This Queens museum becomes a giant play space at this event, which invites children to view huge sculptures made from these popular building toys — like Darth Vader of “Star Wars” and Woody of “Toy Story” — and to fashion their own Lego creations. The construction areas include Neon City, featuring glow-in-the-dark bricks; Floorsaic, a collaborative place to make a 20-foot-by-20-foot mosaic; Nerdy Derby, an arena to engineer and race Lego cars; and Duplo Junior Builders, designed especially for preschoolers. (Although advance tickets are sold out, the museum will offer admission at the door.) 718-699-0005, nysci.orgKIDS ’N COMEDY: ‘MOODY AS MARCH’ at Gotham Comedy Club (March 31, 1 p.m.). Parents know that adolescents’ volatile emotional states are no joke, but tweens and teenagers themselves will mine the subject for plenty of laughs in this stand-up show. Produced by Kids ’N Comedy, an organization in which experienced comics teach young people how to write and perform, the presentation features the most talented students, who gear their material toward audience members 9 and older. The rules forbid profanity and crudity, but sophisticated humor is welcome — and expected. (Reservations are required.)212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘LAST STOP ON MARKET STREET’ at the Linda Gross Theater (March 30, 10:30 a.m.; March 31, 10:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.; through April 13). Although this buoyant musical takes its title from a bus route, it focuses on a more expansive journey: how CJ, a sheltered, self-absorbed boy, learns not just to open his eyes to urban life but to open his heart to the rest of humanity. Presented by Atlantic for Kids, a division of the Atlantic Theater Company, the show follows CJ, played by a young adult (the appealing Jaevon Williams), as he visits his grandmother (a no-nonsense Kara Green) in an unnamed city, where he encounters the disabled, the homeless and a host of others different from himself. While “Last Stop,” adapted by Cheryl L. West from Matt de la Peña’s Newbery Medal-winning picture book, occasionally veers toward sanctimony, there’s no arguing with the power of its score, which includes rap, R&B, gospel and Latin influences. Written by the Motown master Lamont Dozier and his son Paris Dozier, these songs insist that life demands more than just going along for the ride. 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org‘THE LIGHTNING THIEF: THE PERCY JACKSON MUSICAL’ at the Beacon Theater (March 28-29, 7 p.m.; March 30, 2 and 7 p.m.; March 31, noon and 4:30 p.m.). Percy isn’t a typical sixth grader: He happens to be a son of the Greek god Poseidon, with some unusual powers that such a status confers. Yet he also copes with problems familiar to ordinary mortals, like dyslexia, impulse control and difficulties at school. Young audiences can watch him grapple with both sides of his identity in this revival of an acclaimed rock musical that TheaterWorksUSA adapted from the first novel in Rick Riordan’s best-selling series. With a book by Joe Tracz and music and lyrics by Rob Rokicki, the show chronicles Percy’s quest to retrieve Zeus’ stolen lightning bolt and avert a war among the gods.866-858-0008, beacontheatre.comLIVING HISTORY: WOMEN, THE EXTRAORDINARY SOLDIERS OF THE CIVIL WAR (March 30, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.) and LIVING HISTORY: DEBORAH SAMPSON (March 31, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.) at the New-York Historical Society. This museum is ending Women’s History Month by saluting American female patriots who did more than cook, clean, sew and spy for the men at the front: They actually took up arms. On Saturday, a program presented by “Reenactress: The Battles of Jennie Reb & Betty Yank,” a coming documentary about female Civil War re-enactors, will feature historians portraying and discussing some of the women — thought to be as many as a thousand — who fought in the conflict (usually in disguise), as well as those who served as surgeons or uniformed vivandières (field nurses and other volunteers). On Sunday, Judith Kalaora, founder and director of the organization History at Play, will appear as Deborah Sampson (1760-1827), who enlisted in the American Revolution by pretending to be a man. (When wounded in the thigh, Sampson treated the injury herself.) Young visitors on both days can get in on the action by learning and practicing historical military drills.212-873-3400, nyhistory.orgAdvertisement