AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders react to a column by David Brooks describing how his thinking has evolved and he now favors reparations to African-Americans. To the Editor:Re “The Case for Reparations,” by David Brooks (column, March 8):Thank you, Mr. Brooks, for recognizing that the American racial divide is qualitatively different from our other troublesome divisions. It is “born out of sin” that “travels down society through the centuries.” Poll taxes and literacy tests for voting have long been outlawed, but racially motivated voting hurdles and gerrymandering greatly limit the political power of descendants of slaves.“Separate but equal” was outlawed 65 years ago, but descendants of slaves still live in a separate and grossly unequal world, from education to neighborhoods, from health care to public services, from criminal justice to economic opportunity ... and so much more.Of course there’s been progress. But it has taken superhuman effort, was yielded grudgingly at best, has often been reversed or subverted, and clearly never got to the root of the problem. Progress measured in centuries and in tenths of percentage points is an insult and a national disgrace.So what are we to do if the legal, political and economic efforts have been so inadequate? That’s David Brooks’s point: We can’t truly cross the divide unless there’s a societywide and soul-deep acceptance of the sinfulness that has caused and perpetuated that divide. Only then can we find the political will to escape the legacy of slavery and move toward true racial justice.Phillip KaufmanMorristown, N.J. To the Editor:I would argue that reparations for the present generation of any minority would not heal but rather exacerbate feelings of resentment and distrust between racial groups. The process of deciding who deserves reparations would bring such rancor and consume so much of our national conversation that the current issues that torment us would not receive adequate attention.If reparations were given to some, others would argue that they too have suffered and would demand their piece of the redemption pie. We, as a nation, have put into place the kinds of efforts that make sense to make inroads against our sins of the past. We are not perfect, but we have made progress and will continue to do so.Shari ReedAlbuquerqueTo the Editor:What about all the immigrants who arrived after the Civil War? Should I pay reparations for what slave states did even though all my grandparents came to the United States in the 20th century?What about Britain and other countries that imported American goods in the 1800s made cheap on the backs of slave labor? Do they owe reparations?I think the best thing we can do is level the playing field with more education and criminal justice reform.Karl SilverbergCentral Islip, N.Y.To the Editor:Some white Americans whose ancestors arrived after the Civil War may question why they should be responsible for the payment of reparations to the descendants of slaves. To them I say that becoming an American citizen entails both gaining the benefits and taking on the liabilities created by those who came before. Much as all citizens are in some sense responsible for the national debt, becoming a citizen means taking on one’s share of all national obligations, codified or not.Henry Von KohornPrinceton, N.J. To the Editor:It’s difficult to adequately express my depth of gratitude to David Brooks for his courageous, inspiring and deeply moving article that is precisely the kind of powerful medicine our country needs at this time, when racism and bigotry are seemingly societal norms.It has always baffled me that no one blinks an eye at the banks, insurance companies, universities and family fortunes that over 150 years later still savor the riches they’ve inherited that were made possible through the brutal institution of slavery. Yet when the topic of reparations is raised, people can think of a thousand reasons that is not possible.My maternal ancestors were runaway slaves from neighboring plantations in Virginia. They were among the estimated 1 percent — of the roughly four million held in bondage in 1861 — who successfully escaped.As Mr. Brooks so insightfully wrote, this is a tragic and painful part of the American experience that is not shared by other ethnic groups. Recent studies in epigenetics suggest that trauma can be passed down over generations. But so may healing. Mr. Brooks’s change of heart on the matter of reparations based on his travels, personal insights and observations will provide more healing than he may ever realize. Samuel M. LemonMedia, Pa.To the Editor:I am an 80-year-old middle-class white woman, and David Brooks made me cry today. For most of my adult life I have believed that America owes reparations to African-Americans. So to read a supportive and eloquent presentation of the concept by a conservative columnist simply makes me cry. I won’t live to see my beloved country pay its long overdue debt, but just knowing that the conversation has moved a bit is so encouraging.Demetra GreenWashingtonTo the Editor:Ten years after my parents arrived in the United States in 1957, they became American citizens and began the process of filing for reparations. Ten years after they filed, in 1967, they received all of the reparations for which they qualified. My parents received money for the loss of my father’s family business in Germany, the death of his parents in a concentration camp and other losses.Reparations didn’t begin to compensate my parents for their losses, including the loss of what could have been a different future. Reparations helped my parents know that the German government had to face its “sin” against the Jewish people. The proof was in reparations. It was the only way. The government of the United States has not faced its sin against Native and African-American people. Nothing will change until the case for reparations is made, approved and implemented. Jane BlumLouisville, Ky.To the Editor:I am a white male baby boomer and conservative Christian. This is important because it is the likes of me that would have to be reached for a case for reparations to gain any kind of traction.I wasn’t ready for my reaction to David Brooks’s column. I began reading, all my objections in tow: Why pay reparations to people who weren’t directly affected? Racism is met with harsh criticism.To my surprise, Mr. Brooks’s argument that the issues of race today are tied back to a national sin and that a national reckoning for that sin would lead to a spiritual renewal resonated with me. For the first time in my life I could be emotionally invested in talks about the merits of reparations and what they might look like.Vin SparksMadison, Wis.To the Editor:Monetary reparations for African-Americans, however well intended, will likely lead to greater polarization among Americans, not a “reconciliation,” as David Brooks suggests. We have seen that other means of leveling the playing field, including affirmative action in college admissions and corporate emphasis on minority advancement have enabled great progress in middle class growth among minorities. This type of help is also far better for personal pride than monetary handouts.Harris SilverSarasota, Fla.To the Editor:I like reading David Brooks, but this line about his earlier thinking — “What about the poor whites who have nothing of what you would call privilege?” — misses the meaning of white privilege. The poor white person will still be shown an apartment. The poor white person will still be treated by the police better than most if not all black people. The poor white child, only 12 years old, will not be shot almost instantaneously for playing with a toy gun. They do not have to live with the inherent “mistake” of being born black. Unfortunately, I do not see progress.Paul CarraraGenoa, ItalyTo the Editor:Much as I admire David Brooks’s thoughtful writings, this time I disagree: Reparations cannot succeed if they are legislated. That would just be experienced as one more government- or institution-imposed burden.American citizens are the collective inheritors of their forebears’ crimes. In my opinion, only each individual can humbly accept the weight of those crimes and make personal amends wherever possible, to persons who have inherited the effects of those crimes and who suffer from them. This is a personal choice, a gift between two people.Peter PapeschBostonTo the Editor:I found David Brooks’s column to be excellent. That said, I would like to emphasize that our nation’s original sin was the genocide of our Native Americans, the theft of their land and the arrogance of our portrayal of these peoples. Our second original sin was slavery and the continued horror we bestow on the African-American.Jennifer GouldBoulder, Colo.Advertisement